ONE CALLED
THOUSAND TWENTY THREE ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS MEETING I'M
CANDICE BRAYER, CHAIRPERSON
OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
THE ZONING OF APPEALS IS A NINE
PERSON VOLUNTEER BOARD
NOMINATED BY THE MAYOR AND
APPROVED BY CITY COUNCIL.
FIRST WE WILL HEAR FROM
PLANNING SERVICES REPRESENTED
TONIGHT BY JOHN BARRETT.
THEN THE APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE WILL MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION AND APPLICANTS
WILL HAVE FIVE MINUTES IN WHICH
TO MAKE THEIR PRESENTATION.
STAFF WILL KEEP TIME AND WILL
ANNOUNCE WHEN 30 SECONDS ARE
REMAINING PUBLIC COMMENT IS
AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR REMOTELY
.
WE WILL FIRST CALL AN
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR DURING PUBLIC
COMMENT REMOTELY PRESS STAR
NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE IF
YOU ASK THROUGH THE WEB LINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER
MEETING ID NUMBER NINE THREE
EIGHT ONE SIX FOUR EIGHT ONE
ZERO ZERO SEVEN CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IS AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION
BACKGROUND SOUNDS.
WE MAY ASK QUESTIONS OF EITHER
THE CITY OR THE APPLICANT.
WE WILL ACKNOWLEDGE ANY WRITTEN
COMMENTS RECEIVED BY THE BOARD
.
WE WILL ALLOW AN APPEARING
PARTY TO EXPRESS THEIR SUPPORT
OR OBJECTIONS.
THE BOARD WILL THEN DISCUSS THE
APPEAL AND FORMULATE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE APPEAL.
FIVE AFFIRMATIVE VOTES OF THE
BOARD WILL BE REQUIRED FOR AN
APPEAL TO BE GRANTED.
FINALLY, ANY QUALIFIED PARTY
WHO IS AGGRIEVED BY A DECISION
OF THE BOARD CAN APPEAL THAT
DECISION TO THE WASHTENAW
COUNTY CIRCUIT ON A TIMELY
BASIS.
ROLL CALL CANDICE BREYER I AM
HERE TO GRANT HERE DAVE DEVOTEE
IS ALREADY HERE.
CHRIS MADIGAN HERE.
SADIR CLERK HERE, GRACE WHITNEY
HERE MIKE DANIEL DERMO ECKMANN
HERE.
CHRISTINA GUZIK WE HAVE A
QUORUM MOVING ON TO APPROVAL
OF THE AGENDA.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS OR
COMMENTS ON THE AGENDA IF NOT
TO HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
AGENDA?
THANK YOU, CHRIS.
SUPPORT SUPPORT.
THANK YOU, DAVE.
ALL IN FAVOR.
I OPPOSE MOVING ON TO APPROVAL
OF MINUTES.
WE HAVE MINUTES FROM THE
SEPTEMBER TWENTY SEVENTH TWENTY
TWENTY THREE CBA MEETING.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS,
COMMENTS, CORRECTIONS AND THOSE
MINUTES IF DO HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE MINUTES.
YES.
THANK YOU.
DON'T SUPPORT THIS REPORT.
THANK YOU CHRIS.
ALL IN FAVOR.
I A POST.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO PUBLIC HEARINGS WE
HAVE PETITION ZIBA TWENTY THREE
DASH ZERO ZERO TWO FIVE ONE ONE
ONE LONGMAN LANE JUMP.
I'M JOHN BARRETT, ZONING
COORDINATOR FOR THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR.
THE FIRST APPLICATION BEFORE US
THIS EVENING IS ZIBA TWENTY
THREE ZERO ZERO TWO FIVE.
THE ADDRESS IS ONE ELEVEN
ONGMAN LANE TANZY DEGAN
PROPERTY OWNER HAS FILED AN
ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL REGARDING
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY THREE
POINT SIX NONCONFORMING SHORT
TERM RENTAL NON PRINCIPAL
RESIDENCE AND SECTION FIVE
POINT THIRTY TWO POINT ONE
SUBSECTION D
NONCONFORMING USE
THE OWNER REQUEST TO
REESTABLISH A SHORT TERM RENTAL
USE AT THE SUBJECT PROPERTY.
THE CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE
EXPIRED ON JANUARY 29TH TWENTY
TWENTY TWO WHICH EXCEEDS THE
ONE YEAR DISCONTINUANCE PERIOD
THE APPLICANT WAS DENIED A
SHORT TERM RENTAL LICENSE ON
AUGUST TWENTY FOURTH TWENTY
TWENTY THREE AND IS APPEALING
THE DECISION OF THE MANAGER
OF RENTAL HOUSING SERVICES.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
NORTH OF JACKSON AVENUE BETWEEN
LAGMAN LANE AND VETERANS PARK
AND THE HARBORVIEW NEIGHBORHOOD
.
THE HOME WAS BUILT IN NINETEEN
TWENTY NINE IS APPROXIMATELY
NINE HUNDRED TWENTY FOUR SQUARE
FEET IN SIZE.
THE THREE BEDROOM FOUR OCCUPANT
RENTAL HOME HAS A CURRENT
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE THAT
WAS APPLIED FOR ON JULY 10TH.
TWENTY TWENTY TWENTY TWENTY
THREE AND APPROVED ON AUGUST
14TH TWENTY TWENTY THREE.
THE PREVIOUS CERTIFICATE
OF COMPLIANCE EXPIRED ON
JANUARY 29TH.
TWENTY TWENTY TWO APPROXIMATELY
EIGHTEEN MONTHS PASSED BETWEEN
THE EXPIRATION OF THE TWO
RENTAL REGISTRATION
CERTIFICATES MISS DEEGAN CLAIMS
TO HAVE BEEN OPERATING A SHORT
TERM RENTAL HOME PRIOR TO THE
CERTIFICATE EXPIRING ON JANUARY
TWENTY NINE TWENTY TWENTY TWO
BUT CEASED OPERATING THE
BUSINESS DUE TO COVID-19 CITY
COUNCIL ADOPTED A NEW SHORT
TERM RENTAL LICENSE ORDINANCE
IN MARCH OF TWENTY TWENTY ONE
AND AMENDED IT TO SPECIFICALLY
ALLOW SHORT TERM RENTALS LESS
THAN 30 DAYS THAT ARE NOT OWNER
OCCUPIED IN RESIDENTIAL ZONE
DISTRICTS.
IF THE BUSINESS WAS IN AN
OPERATION PRIOR TO MAY TWENTY
THIRD TWENTY TWENTY ONE A SHORT
TERM RENTAL PROPERTY THAT WAS
IN OPERATION WAS REQUIRED TO
APPLY FOR THE SHORT TERM RENTAL
LICENSE TO OBTAIN THEIR
NONCONFORMING STATUS WITH THE
RENTAL HOUSING DEPARTMENT.
MISS DEEGAN FAILED TO COMPLY
WITH THE ABOVE REQUIREMENTS AND
THEREFORE DOES NOT MEET THE NON
CONFORMING STATUS TO OPERATE IN
AS THE ONE YEAR PERIOD HAS
EXPIRED AND THE PROPER
CERTIFICATE WAS NOT OBTAINED.
MISS DEEGAN IS PERMITTED TO
OPERATE A RENTAL HOME BUT IT
CANNOT BE LEASED FOR PERIODS
OF LESS THAN 30 DAYS.
SUPPORTING EVIDENCE AND
DOCUMENTATION HAS NOT BEEN
SUPPLIED BY THE APPELLANT OTHER
THAN AN ATTACHED EMAIL AND
PHOTOS THAT YOU HAVE RECEIVED.
IF YOU'LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION
TO THE MONITOR'S THE FIRST
SLIDE IS THE LOCATION MAP AND
ZONING MAP AND YOU SEE THE
HIGHLIGHTED PARCEL IN BLUE IN
THE CENTER OF YOUR SCREEN.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE AREA MAP
SHOWING SURROUNDING PROPERTIES
AND EXISTING CONDITIONS AS YOU
SEE IS JUST EAST OF VETERANS
PARK AND JUST NORTH OF JACKSON
AVENUE.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO OF SUBJECT
PROPERTY AND THE NEXT SLIDES
ARE THE PHOTOS THAT I TOOK MY
INSPECTION OF THE PROPERTY TO
SEE THE FRONT OF THE HOME FROM
WONGAN LANE.
THIS IS LOOKING AT THE SIDE
OF THE HOME AND DOWN DRIVEWAY.
NEXT SLIDE IS THE SIDE YARD AND
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE REAR
YARD.
CHRIS MCFARLAND WITH THE RENTAL
HOUSING DEPARTMENT IS HERE THIS
EVENING TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS
THAT YOU MAY HAVE.
BUT I THAT COMPLETES MY
PRESENTATION.
I CAN TAKE ANY QUESTIONS YOU
MAY HAVE AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
QUESTIONS FIRST AFTER THIS.
I HAVE A BUNCH OF QUESTIONS BUT
SHOULD I DIRECT THEM TO THE
CALLER RATHER THAN USUAL?
YOU CAN ASK A QUESTION IF I
CAN'T ANSWER IT THEN WE CAN GO
TO CHRIS WILL DO SO MY
UNDERSTANDING IS THE CITY'S
POSITION IS THAT THIS WAS A
LEGAL NONCONFORMING USE BEFORE
THE NEW ORDINANCE IS CORRECT IN
OTHER WORDS NOT LET ME SAY
DIFFERENT RENTING PROPERTY IN
THIS PART OF THIS CITY WAS
ALLOWED WASN'T ALLOWED ZONING.
IS THAT CORRECT?
YES.
OK, DOES THE CITY KNOW WHEN THE
PROPERTY WAS FIRST RENTED
EITHER ON A SHORT OR LONG TERM
BASIS?
>> WE DO NOT LET ME ASK A
DIFFERENT QUESTION BEFORE THE
ORDINANCE BEFORE LET'S SAY MAY
OF TWENTY ONE WAS THE PROBLEM
IS THE CITY IS SATISFIED THAT
THE PROPERTY WAS IN FACT BEING
USED AS A RENTAL PROPERTY
WHEREAS THE CITY UNCLEAR ABOUT
THAT.
NO, THERE WAS IT HAD A
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE PRIOR
TO MAY OF TWENTY TWENTY ONE TO
BE A RENTAL PROPERTY.
OK, SO JUST TO BE CLEAR, THE
CITY IS SATISFIED IT WAS BEING
USED AS A RENTAL PROPERTY
BEFORE IT'S CORRECT AND THE
CITY'S POSITION IS BECAUSE THE
APPLICANT DIDN'T FILE THE
PAPERWORK WITHIN A YEAR THAT
THAT MEANS THE DISCONTINUED USE
OF THE PROPERTY.
IS THAT CORRECT NOW SO THE
PROPER PAPERWORK TO APPLY TO BE
A SHORT TERM RENTAL WAS NOT
APPLIED FOR OR RECEIVED PRIOR
TO THE DEADLINE DATE.
THE CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE
EXPIRED IN JANUARY TWENTY
TWENTY TWO AND SO THEY THEY CAN
OPERATE AS A RENTAL HOUSE FOR
EIGHTEEN MONTHS THEN CAME TO
THE CITY AND SAID WE WANT OUR
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE AGAIN
AND BY THE WAY WE WANT TO DO
SHORT TERM RENTAL SO BOTH THE
ORIGINAL CERTIFICATE COMPLIANCE
EXPIRED AND THE TIME FRAME TO
BE A SHORT TERM RENTAL EXPIRED
AS WELL.
DOES THE CITY KNOW WHO IS BEING
USED FOR THE SHORT TERM RENTAL
BEFORE THE NEW ORDINANCE THE
ACCORDING TO THE APPLICANT I
BELIEVE THAT'S THEIR STANCE
THAT THEY WERE DOING THAT PRIOR
BUT THERE WASN'T AN ORDINANCE
IN EFFECT NOT ALLOWING STORES
PREVIOUS UNDERSTOOD.
A COUPLE OF MORE QUESTIONS.
HAVE THERE BEEN ANY PHYSICAL
CHANGES TO THE PROPERTY?
THE PICTURES HERE JUST OVER
NORMAL RESIDENCE IT'S NOT BEEN
MODIFIED ANY WAY BUT PERHAPS
THERE'S SOMETHING ELSE WHERE
THERE WAS A SIGN THAT SAID, YOU
KNOW, FUTURE HOME OF CHOSE
DONUTS OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
THERE'S BEEN NO CHANGES TO THE
PROPERTY.
I TAKE NO CHANGES THAT I'M
AWARE OF .
SO THE CITY IS BASING ITS
POSITION ON A SENSE ESSENTIALLY
NOT FILING THE CORRECT
PAPERWORK TIMELY.
YES.
ALONG WITH THE CERTIFICATE
OF COMPLIANCE EXPIRING.
I UNDERSTAND IF THEY WOULD HAVE
APPLIED FOR A NEWSPAPER THE
COMPLIANCE THAT INFORMATION
WOULD HAVE BEEN CONVEYED TO
THEM TO GIVE THEM THAT
OPPORTUNITY IF THEY WANTED TO
DO AND STAFF AT THAT TIME TO
APPLY FOR ONE MORE QUESTION IS
THE APPLICANT INFORMED THE CITY
THAT IT HAD DECIDED NOT TO
CONTINUE USING THE PROPERTY AS
A RENTAL AND THEN CHANGED ITS
OR HER MIND OR THEY SAID
NOTHING ABOUT WHAT WAS GOING ON
?
AS FAR AS I AM AWARE THERE WAS
NO COMMUNICATION EXPRESSED THE
FACT THAT THEY WERE
DISCONTINUING THE USE TO THE
CITY AND ANY OTHER QUESTIONS
FOR STAFF?
ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONER IS HERE YOU
CAN COME FORWARD.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE
RECORD AND YOU'LL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES.
OK, DOES MY FIVE MINUTES START
NOW?
OK, WELL THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
TAKING THE TIME TO HEAR MY CASE
TODAY.
I AM TMZ AGAIN.
I'M GOING TO JUST TELL YOU A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT MYSELF QUICKLY
AND THEN I'LL GET TO THE PART
OF THE TIMELINE THAT I THINK IS
MISSING FROM MY ORIGINAL
APPLICATION.
I'VE LIVED IN ANN ARBOR AREA
FOR OVER TWENTY YEARS.
I OWN OPERATE MY BUSINESS IN
ANN ARBOR.
I'M A BALLROOM DANCE INSTRUCTOR
WITH AN EMORY STUDIO.
I ALSO RUN A NONPROFIT IN OUR
COMMUNITY CALLED DANCING THE
MICHIGAN STARS THAT RAISES LOTS
OF MONEY FOR LOCAL COMMUNITY
PROJECTS LIKE CHATOOR
FOUNDATION, MEALS ON WHEELS,
THINGS LIKE THAT.
I'M PASSIONATE ABOUT LIVING IN
ANN ARBOR AND I'M PASSIONATE
ABOUT BRINGING THE BEST THINGS
TO MY COMMUNITY.
MY PROPERTY IS MY FIRST HOUSE
EVER LIVED IN.
IT'S THE HOME I BROUGHT BOTH MY
CHILDREN HOME TO FROM THE
HOSPITAL.
WE OUTGREW IT BECAUSE IT'S NINE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY SQUARE FEET
SO THAT'S WHY I STARTED SHARING
IT WITH OTHERS.
I SHARE IT WITH NEIGHBORS,
FRIENDS, FAMILIES, MY FAVORITE
PEOPLE TO SHARE IT WITH OTHER
PEOPLE WHO ARE VISITING MY
CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL AND NEED A
COMFORT OF HOME THAT'S I
STARTED DOING ASTAR.
I'M VERY GRASSROOTS ABOUT IT
ALL.
I'VE NEVER HAD TO ADVERTISE IT
ON A PLATFORM LIKE AIRBNB.
IT'S WORD OF MOUTH, IT'S
NEIGHBORS, IT'S FRIENDS, IT'S
FAMILY.
SO THAT'S A LITTLE BIT
OF BACKGROUND.
THE THING THAT I WAS MISSING IN
MY ORIGINAL APPLICATION, SHE
SAYS I THINK IS THE TIMELINE.
SO JUST TO RECAP THAT QUICKLY
FOR YOU IN AUGUST OF TWENTY
NINETEEN I STARTED USING IT AS
AN ASTAR THROUGH THE CITY
JANUARY OF TWENTY TWENTY IS
WHEN I HOSTED MY LAST ASTAR
GUEST BECAUSE COVID WAS
STARTING TO SHUT THINGS DOWN
MARCH THROUGH JULY OF TWENTY
TWENTY THERE WAS A MANDATORY
SHUTDOWN OF ALL STORES BY OUR
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT WHICH I DID
NOT TAKE LIGHTLY JULY 10TH
OF TWENTY TWENTY I SIGNED A
LONG TERM LEASE A THREE YEAR
LEASE WITH A TENANT BECAUSE IT
WAS UNCLEAR AT THAT TIME HOW
COVID WAS GOING TO CONTINUE AND
IT WAS ALSO UNCLEAR AT THAT
TIME THAT I COULD NOT GO MORE
THAN TWELVE CONSECUTIVE MONTHS
WITHOUT USING IT AS NEXT YEAR
BECAUSE THIS WAS IN TWENTY
TWENTY MARCH TWENTY TWENTY ONE
ALMOST A YEAR LATER IS WHEN THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR PUT THE NEW
ETR POLICY INTO PLACE.
I DID RECEIVE A LETTER AT THAT
POINT THE ONLY THING LISTED AS
A STIPULATION ON THAT LETTER
WAS THAT YOU HAVE TO BE ABLE TO
PROVE YOU WERE USING IT AS AN
ASTAR PRIOR TO MARCH OF TWENTY
TWENTY ONE WHICH I WAS ABLE TO
DO AND THAT WAS SENT IN WITH MY
ORIGINAL APPEAL.
YOU MUST HAVE COPIES OF SEVERAL
LEASES IN THAT ORIGINAL NOT IN
THE ORIGINAL APPEAL AND THE
ORIGINAL APPLICATION.
SO THAT WAS IN MARCH OF TWENTY
TWENTY ONE THAT THE CITY
CHANGED THE POLICY ON HOW TO
OPERATE.
BUT OF COURSE I WAS ONE YEAR
INTO HAVING A THREE YEAR RENTER
IN THERE BECAUSE AT THE TIME I
REALLY THOUGHT THAT THAT'S WHAT
WAS SAFEST FOR MY COMMUNITY
GIVEN THE PANDEMIC.
SO THAT RENTER MOVED OUT AUGUST
1ST OF TWENTY TWENTY THREE.
THAT'S WHEN I STARTED THIS
PROCESS TO GO BACK TO THE STAFF
AND THAT'S WHAT LED TO THIS
VERY MOMENT RIGHT NOW I
APPRECIATE YOU GUYS HEARING ME
OUT ON THAT.
I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER QUESTIONS.
I'M JUST LOOKING FOR WHAT'S
FAIR HERE AND I THINK GIVEN I
KNOW THAT I'M A UNIQUE CASE AND
THAT WE HAVEN'T DEALT
WITH A
PANDEMIC LIKE THAT EVER BEFORE
AND THE TIME LAPSE AND THINGS
THAT HAPPENED IN THAT TIME AND
WE ALL RESPONDED DIFFERENTLY
BUT I TRULY FELT I WAS DOING
WHAT WAS BEST FOR MY COMMUNITY
BY PUTTING A LONG TERM RENTER
IN THERE AT THAT TIME AND I WAS
JUST TRYING TO DO THE RIGHT
THING LIKE I AM NOW.
I WANT TO BE COMPLIANT.
I'M SORRY IF IT DIDN'T END UP
THAT WAY BUT I WOULD DO
WHATEVER IT TAKES TO GET
COMPLIANCE.
THAT'S A THANK YOU QUESTION HAS
BEEN OCCURRING.
YEAH.
HAVE YOU MADE ANY PHYSICAL
CHANGES TO THE PROPERTY IN THE
LAST THREE YEARS?
IN OTHER WORDS, HAVE YOU WANT
TO DO MORE RESEARCH TO BE DONE
ANYTHING WITH THE PROPERTY THAT
WOULD BE INCONSISTENT WITH HIS
REVOLVERS OF HIS BASED ON.
NO, NOT REALLY THE BUSINESS OR
KNOW IS THERE SOME REASON THAT
YOU DON'T WANT TO HAVE, AS YOU
PUT IT, SHORT TERM RENTALS YEAR
?
WHY COULDN'T YOU SIMPLY VISIT
FOR SIX OR TWELVE MONTHS OR
EVEN TWO MONTHS IN THE CITIES
OR THAT'S WHAT WHY YOU DECIDED
TO FOLLOW THIS RATHER THAN
ENTER INTO A LONGER TERM LEASE?
YEAH, THE REASON I WANT TO DO
IS A SHORT TERM RENTAL IS
BECAUSE OFTENTIMES FAMILIES WHO
ARE COMING TO MY NEED A ONE
WEEK STAY WHEN THEY'RE HERE AT
THE HOSPITAL SO IT'S VERY
SHORT.
IT'S NOT OFTEN A 30 DAY THING
SHORTER VISIT SO THAT'S OK.
MY MICROPHONE WAS TURNED ON.
SORRY ABOUT THAT.
I CAN'T HEAR YOU.
YEAH.
YEAH SORRY.
DO I NEED TO RESTATE IT.
MY QUESTION NO I THINK WE'LL
HAVE IT ON THE MINUTES.
GO GO.
SORRY ABOUT THAT.
ALL RIGHT
DURING THE SO OK SO
THE HOME FROM YOUR PRESENTATION
THE TIMELINE IS ACTUALLY HAD
SOMEBODY LIVING IN IT PRETTY
STEADILY THERE WAS A THREE YEAR
LEASE AND THEN THAT ENDED IN
AUGUST CORRECT?
YES.
OK AND AGAIN AT LEAST WAS
SIGNED ON JULY 10TH OF TWENTY
TWENTY RIGHT IN THE HEAT OF THE
PANDEMIC WHEN I REALLY THOUGHT
THAT THAT WAS THE RIGHT THING
TO DO.
DID YOU EVER THINK AT ANY POINT
OF SELLING THE PROPERTY RATHER
THAN USING IT AS A RENTAL YOU
DECIDE NOT AT SOME POINT NOT TO
USE IT AS A RENTAL AND PERHAPS
SELL IT OR IF YOU ARE WE
DECIDED TO HANG ON TO THE
PROPERTY AT THIS POINT IT'S
STILL MY INTENTION TO HANG ONTO
THE PROPERTY HERE.
I HAVE NO FURTHER QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER?
YES, I GOT SO YOU HAD A NUMBER
OF SHORT TERM LEASES PRIOR TO
THE PANDEMIC.
CORRECT.
AND YOU WERE FOR HOW MANY YEARS
WHERE ARE YOU RUNNING IT AS A
SHORT TERM RENTAL FROM AUGUST
OF TWENTY NINETEEN JUST TILL
JANUARY OF TWENTY TWENTY.
SO JUST UNDER A YEAR.
CORRECT.
AND THEN WITH THE PANDEMIC THAT
SPRING I GUESS IT HIT IN MARCH
OR JAIL SHUT DOWN AND THINGS
SHUT DOWN OK AND AT THAT POINT
SHORT TERM RENTALS SHUT DOWN
CORRECT I UNDERSTAND THAT AND
THAT WAS DUE TO THE PANDEMIC IS
A PERSONAL CHOICE THAT YOU MADE
OK CHANGE YOUR NATURE
OF BUSINESS.
CORRECT.
IT WAS BECAUSE OF THE PANDEMIC
AND THE MANDATORY SENTENCE.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS.
IF THERE'S ANYONE ELSE WHO
THANK YOU.
WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
IF THERE'S ANYONE ELSE WHO
PETITION NOW'S THE TIME.
WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
PLEASE COME FORWARD.
PETITION NOW'S THE TIME.
IF THERE'S ANYONE ACCESSING THE
PLEASE COME FORWARD.
MEETING REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
IF THERE'S ANYONE ACCESSING THE
STAR NINE TO RAISE YOUR HAND OR
MEETING REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
USE THE RAISED FEATURE
STAR NINE TO RAISE YOUR HAND OR
OF ACCESSING VIA THE WEB LINK.
USE THE RAISED FEATURE
THERE ARE NO CALLERS.
OF ACCESSING VIA THE WEB LINK.
THANK YOU COURTNEY WITH THAT
THERE ARE NO CALLERS.
THE PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
THANK YOU COURTNEY WITH THAT
AND WE'RE IN DISCUSSION THAT
THE PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
YES I A MEMBER THAT'S WHAT I'M
AND WE'RE IN DISCUSSION THAT
ABOUT TO SAY DOESN'T IS NOT
YES I A MEMBER THAT'S WHAT I'M
MEANT TO BE INTERPRETED BY CITY
ABOUT TO SAY DOESN'T IS NOT
STAFF IS THEM NOT HAVING
MEANT TO BE INTERPRETED BY CITY
APPLIED THE LETTER OF THE
STAFF IS THEM NOT HAVING
ORDINANCE CORRECTLY.
APPLIED THE LETTER OF THE
BUT I HAVE SOME SERIOUS
ORDINANCE CORRECTLY.
PROBLEMS WITH THE CITY'S
BUT I HAVE SOME SERIOUS
POSITION AND LET ME STATE WHAT
PROBLEMS WITH THE CITY'S
MICHIGAN LAW CLEARLY IS.
POSITION AND LET ME STATE WHAT
I'M IN A RETIRED ATTORNEY NOW
MICHIGAN LAW CLEARLY IS.
BUT I'VE HAD THESE CASES BEFORE
I'M IN A RETIRED ATTORNEY NOW
AND MICHIGAN LAW IS VERY CLEAR.
BUT I'VE HAD THESE CASES BEFORE
THE CITY'S ORDINANCE SAID THAT
AND MICHIGAN LAW IS VERY CLEAR.
WHEN YOU FAIL TO ESSENTIALLY
THE CITY'S ORDINANCE SAID THAT
PARAPHRASING WHEN YOU DON'T
WHEN YOU FAIL TO ESSENTIALLY
SUBMIT THE PAPERWORK THE CITY
PARAPHRASING WHEN YOU DON'T
WILL INTERPRET THE PRIOR LEGAL
SUBMIT THE PAPERWORK THE CITY
NONCONFORMING USE AS HAVING
WILL INTERPRET THE PRIOR LEGAL
BEEN DISCONTINUED.
NONCONFORMING USE AS HAVING
I DON'T THINK THAT'S THE BEST
BEEN DISCONTINUED.
PHRASE.
I DON'T THINK THAT'S THE BEST
MICHIGAN LAW IS CLEAR THAT A
PHRASE.
NON PRIOR NONCONFORMING USE CAN
MICHIGAN LAW IS CLEAR THAT A
ONLY BE ENDED BY THE OWNER
NON PRIOR NONCONFORMING USE CAN
OF THAT AND MERE DISCONTINUANCE
ONLY BE ENDED BY THE OWNER
PLUS THE PASSAGE OF TIME EVEN
OF THAT AND MERE DISCONTINUANCE
ONE TWO, THREE, FOUR YEARS IS
PLUS THE PASSAGE OF TIME EVEN
INSUFFICIENT IN AND
ONE TWO, THREE, FOUR YEARS IS
OF THEMSELVES TO SHOW THAT THE
INSUFFICIENT IN AND
PROPERTY OWNER HAS ABANDONED
OF THEMSELVES TO SHOW THAT THE
THE USE FROM MY QUESTIONS
PROPERTY OWNER HAS ABANDONED
OF THE CITY AND HIS DEGAN HERE
THE USE FROM MY QUESTIONS
IT'S CLEAR THAT SHE NEVER
OF THE CITY AND HIS DEGAN HERE
ABANDONED THE USE.
IT'S CLEAR THAT SHE NEVER
IT'S ALWAYS BEEN USED AS
ABANDONED THE USE.
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY AND
IT'S ALWAYS BEEN USED AS
WHETHER A LEASE IS A WEEK, SIX
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY AND
MONTHS, 12 MONTHS IT'S THE SAME
WHETHER A LEASE IS A WEEK, SIX
TYPE OF USE.
MONTHS, 12 MONTHS IT'S THE SAME
THERE ARE OTHER ORDINANCES IN
TYPE OF USE.
THIS STATE I AM SURE THEY'D SAY
THERE ARE OTHER ORDINANCES IN
THAT WE DON'T SUBMIT THE
THIS STATE I AM SURE THEY'D SAY
PAPERWORK OR WHEN IT'S NOT BEEN
THAT WE DON'T SUBMIT THE
ACTIVELY USED FOR A PERIOD
PAPERWORK OR WHEN IT'S NOT BEEN
OF TIME OFTEN A YEAR THAT THE
ACTIVELY USED FOR A PERIOD
CITY WILL DEEM THE USE HAVING
OF TIME OFTEN A YEAR THAT THE
BEEN ABANDONED.
CITY WILL DEEM THE USE HAVING
THEY ARE COMPLETELY
BEEN ABANDONED.
INCONSISTENT WITH MICHIGAN
THEY ARE COMPLETELY
APPELLATE CASE LAW.
INCONSISTENT WITH MICHIGAN
FOR THAT REASON I WILL BE
APPELLATE CASE LAW.
VOTING IN FAVOR OF MADIGAN THE
FOR THAT REASON I WILL BE
LAW I THINK IN THE SITUATION IS
VOTING IN FAVOR OF MADIGAN THE
CRYSTAL CLEAR.
LAW I THINK IN THE SITUATION IS
I'M DOUG.
CRYSTAL CLEAR.
IF I'M FOLLOWING THE SITUATION
I'M DOUG.
CORRECTLY, SHORT TERM RENTALS
IF I'M FOLLOWING THE SITUATION
ARE NO LONGER ALLOWED IN THIS
CORRECTLY, SHORT TERM RENTALS
NEIGHBORHOOD IS THIS ONE IS NO
ARE NO LONGER ALLOWED IN THIS
LONGER OUT IN RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOOD IS THIS ONE IS NO
DISTRICT.
LONGER OUT IN RESIDENTIAL
THEY'RE NO LONGER ARE THE
DISTRICT.
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS BUT PART
THEY'RE NO LONGER ARE THE
OF THE LITTLE RELEASE VALVE IF
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS BUT PART
YOU WILL FOR THIS NEW ORDINANCE
OF THE LITTLE RELEASE VALVE IF
WAS THAT EXISTING STORES AND
YOU WILL FOR THIS NEW ORDINANCE
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS COULD BE
WAS THAT EXISTING STORES AND
SORT OF GRANDFATHERED IN AND IT
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS COULD BE
SOUNDS LIKE THE WAY THAT THE
SORT OF GRANDFATHERED IN AND IT
CITY DID THAT WAS THAT YOU HAD
SOUNDS LIKE THE WAY THAT THE
TO FILE THE APPROPRIATE
CITY DID THAT WAS THAT YOU HAD
PAPERWORK BY A CERTAIN TIME TO
TO FILE THE APPROPRIATE
DO THAT AND THEY DIDN'T DO THAT
PAPERWORK BY A CERTAIN TIME TO
,CORRECT?
DO THAT AND THEY DIDN'T DO THAT
RIGHT.
,CORRECT?
OK, KRIS TODD, I RESPECT YOUR
RIGHT.
OPINION SO MUCH I THINK YOU'RE
OK, KRIS TODD, I RESPECT YOUR
DEAD WRONG HERE.
OPINION SO MUCH I THINK YOU'RE
STORIES ARE COMMERCIAL USE
DEAD WRONG HERE.
THROUGH AND THROUGH.
STORIES ARE COMMERCIAL USE
I THINK THAT EVEN THE LEAST
THROUGH AND THROUGH.
GENEROUS READING OF STARS
I THINK THAT EVEN THE LEAST
ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THEY ARE
GENEROUS READING OF STARS
COMMERCIAL USES.
ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THEY ARE
THEY ARE ESSENTIALLY HOTELS.
COMMERCIAL USES.
RIGHT.
THEY ARE ESSENTIALLY HOTELS.
AND SO DEPENDING ON THE CITY
RIGHT.
THAT YOU'RE IN, THEY MAY
AND SO DEPENDING ON THE CITY
FLUCTUATE SOMEWHAT RIGHT.
THAT YOU'RE IN, THEY MAY
SO IF WE GO TO A BEACH
FLUCTUATE SOMEWHAT RIGHT.
COMMUNITY, L.A. COMMUNITY, THEY
SO IF WE GO TO A BEACH
ARE DEFINITELY COMMERCIAL USE
COMMUNITY, L.A. COMMUNITY, THEY
RIGHT THERE WE CAN USE AS THEIR
ARE DEFINITELY COMMERCIAL USE
RECORDING USES THEY ARE PLACES
RIGHT THERE WE CAN USE AS THEIR
FOR GROUPS TO SHOW UP.
RECORDING USES THEY ARE PLACES
MAYBE THAT FLUCTUATES A LITTLE
FOR GROUPS TO SHOW UP.
BIT AS WE GET INTO TO
MAYBE THAT FLUCTUATES A LITTLE
COMMUNITIES LIKE OURS.
BIT AS WE GET INTO TO
BUT I THINK EVEN A VERY
COMMUNITIES LIKE OURS.
GENEROUS READING WOULD STILL
BUT I THINK EVEN A VERY
CLASSIFY THEM AS AS COMMERCIAL
GENEROUS READING WOULD STILL
USERS.
CLASSIFY THEM AS AS COMMERCIAL
SO TO ME THIS GOES FROM A
USERS.
COMMERCIAL USE IN A RESIDENTIAL
SO TO ME THIS GOES FROM A
NEIGHBORHOOD TO A RESIDENTIAL
COMMERCIAL USE IN A RESIDENTIAL
USE WITH THE LONG TERM RENTAL
NEIGHBORHOOD TO A RESIDENTIAL
BUT THAT REALLY ISN'T THE
USE WITH THE LONG TERM RENTAL
QUESTION I THINK THAT'S BEFORE
BUT THAT REALLY ISN'T THE
US.
QUESTION I THINK THAT'S BEFORE
RIGHT.
US.
IT'S LIKE IS HAS STAFF APPLIED
RIGHT.
THE RULES CORRECTLY WHETHER WE
IT'S LIKE IS HAS STAFF APPLIED
APPRECIATE THEM OR NOT?
THE RULES CORRECTLY WHETHER WE
AND I REALLY HAVEN'T SEEN A LOT
APPRECIATE THEM OR NOT?
THAT SAYS THAT THEY HAVEN'T
AND I REALLY HAVEN'T SEEN A LOT
APPLIED IT CORRECTLY AND SO I I
THAT SAYS THAT THEY HAVEN'T
THINK I HAVE TO VOTE NO ON THIS
APPLIED IT CORRECTLY AND SO I I
BECAUSE I STILL HAVEN'T SEEN A
THINK I HAVE TO VOTE NO ON THIS
LOT OF EVIDENCE THAT THEY
BECAUSE I STILL HAVEN'T SEEN A
DIDN'T DO THEIR JOB.
LOT OF EVIDENCE THAT THEY
I THINK YOU MADE THE RIGHT
DIDN'T DO THEIR JOB.
DECISION AND I APPRECIATE YOU.
I THINK YOU MADE THE RIGHT
I THINK WHAT'S BEST FOR NEVER
DECISION AND I APPRECIATE YOU.
IN MY OPINION IS THE LONG TERM
I THINK WHAT'S BEST FOR NEVER
RENTAL OF HOMES FOR PEOPLE WHO
IN MY OPINION IS THE LONG TERM
WANT TO LIVE HERE.
RENTAL OF HOMES FOR PEOPLE WHO
BUT THAT HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH
WANT TO LIVE HERE.
MY DECISION.
BUT THAT HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH
IT'S NOT ABOUT THAT.
MY DECISION.
IT IS JUST ABOUT WHETHER STAFF
IT'S NOT ABOUT THAT.
IS A PILOT, THE ORDINANCE AND
IT IS JUST ABOUT WHETHER STAFF
THEIR RULES CORRECTLY.
IS A PILOT, THE ORDINANCE AND
I THINK THEY HAVE.
THEIR RULES CORRECTLY.
SO I'M GOING TO VOTE TO TO
I THINK THEY HAVE.
MANAGE IT TONIGHT.
SO I'M GOING TO VOTE TO TO
WHAT SHOULD I DO WITH THE OTHER
MANAGE IT TONIGHT.
DAY?
WHAT SHOULD I DO WITH THE OTHER
YEAH, WE'LL GET BACK TO YOU
DAY?
AFTER EVERYONE ELSE IS DONE.
YEAH, WE'LL GET BACK TO YOU
TED, LET ME GO AHEAD.
AFTER EVERYONE ELSE IS DONE.
SO I'M GOING TO SUPPORT THE
TED, LET ME GO AHEAD.
APPELLANT HERE.
SO I'M GOING TO SUPPORT THE
IT'S CLEAR TO ME THAT HE WAS
APPELLANT HERE.
USED AS A SHORT TERM RENTAL
IT'S CLEAR TO ME THAT HE WAS
PRELIMINARY TO THE ORDINANCE I
USED AS A SHORT TERM RENTAL
ACTUALLY SUPPORT TO THAT
PRELIMINARY TO THE ORDINANCE I
ORDINANCE AND I SUPPORT THE
ACTUALLY SUPPORT TO THAT
FACT THAT IT GRANDFATHERED IN
ORDINANCE AND I SUPPORT THE
USE HIS SHORT TERM RENTAL USES
FACT THAT IT GRANDFATHERED IN
THAT WERE BEING USED AHEAD
USE HIS SHORT TERM RENTAL USES
OF TIME.
THAT WERE BEING USED AHEAD
NOW IN TERMS OF THE SEMANTICS
OF TIME.
ABOUT COMMERCIAL USE CALLING
NOW IN TERMS OF THE SEMANTICS
SHORT TERM RENTALS COMMERCIAL
ABOUT COMMERCIAL USE CALLING
OR NOT, THAT'S FRANKLY B.S.
SHORT TERM RENTALS COMMERCIAL
IT'S RESIDENTIAL USE AND SHORT
OR NOT, THAT'S FRANKLY B.S.
TERM RESIDENTIAL USE AND I'M
IT'S RESIDENTIAL USE AND SHORT
FOR IT'S IT'S A USE THAT'S
TERM RESIDENTIAL USE AND I'M
THERE THAT'S PREDATED.
FOR IT'S IT'S A USE THAT'S
WE'RE STILL ALLOWING IT IN IN
THERE THAT'S PREDATED.
HOMES WHERE THE RENT AND WHERE
WE'RE STILL ALLOWING IT IN IN
THE OWNER IS THERE AND WE'VE
HOMES WHERE THE RENT AND WHERE
GRANDFATHERED IN THE CAPABILITY
THE OWNER IS THERE AND WE'VE
FOR IN THESE RESIDENTIAL
GRANDFATHERED IN THE CAPABILITY
NEIGHBORHOODS FOR EXISTING
FOR IN THESE RESIDENTIAL
SHORT TERM RENTALS TO CONTINUE
NEIGHBORHOODS FOR EXISTING
USING.
SHORT TERM RENTALS TO CONTINUE
I THINK THAT THE FACT THAT WE
USING.
HAD THE PANDEMIC IS SUCH AN
I THINK THAT THE FACT THAT WE
UNUSUAL OCCURRENCE.
HAD THE PANDEMIC IS SUCH AN
IT'S BEEN A HUNDRED YEARS SINCE
UNUSUAL OCCURRENCE.
THE LAST ONE THAT A LOT
IT'S BEEN A HUNDRED YEARS SINCE
OF PEOPLE MADE DECISIONS TO
THE LAST ONE THAT A LOT
CHANGE THEIR BUSINESS, ORIENT
OF PEOPLE MADE DECISIONS TO
THEIR BUSINESS.
CHANGE THEIR BUSINESS, ORIENT
WE HAD FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
THEIR BUSINESS.
SUPPORT TO KEEP PEOPLE IN
WE HAD FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
BUSINESS.
SUPPORT TO KEEP PEOPLE IN
WE'VE SEEN A TREMENDOUS
BUSINESS.
TURNOVER OF ALL SORTS
WE'VE SEEN A TREMENDOUS
OF BUSINESSES THROUGHOUT OUR
TURNOVER OF ALL SORTS
COMMUNITY AND THROUGHOUT THE
OF BUSINESSES THROUGHOUT OUR
NATION CAUSED BY THE DIRECT
COMMUNITY AND THROUGHOUT THE
DISRUPTIONS THE PANDEMIC IT TO
NATION CAUSED BY THE DIRECT
ME IT'S JUST A MATTER
OF COMMON
SENSE FOR SOMEBODY WHO'S
OPERATING A SHORT TERM RENTAL
TO FIGURE OUT A WAY TO CONTINUE
TO OPERATE THEIR RENTAL
BUSINESS AND TO KEEP THIS
PROPERTY IN USE IS A RENTAL AS
A RESIDENTIAL RENTAL WHICH I
THINK SHORT TERM RENTALS I'LL
BE SUPPORTING THE APPELLANT AND
I THINK THEY YOU KNOW, IT'S
UNFORTUNATE THAT THE CITY'S
CHANGED IN THIS ORDINANCE OR
THE APPLICATION OF THIS
ORDINANCE TO LIMIT SHORT TERM
RENTALS COMING INTO THE
COMMUNITY.
IT'S UNFORTUNATE THAT WAS TIMED
TO HAPPEN WHEN THE PANDEMIC WAS
CHANGING THE WAY PEOPLE OPERATE
AND LIVE IN THIS COMMUNITY AND
IN THIS WORLD.
SO I'LL BE SUPPORTING THE
APPELLANT.
GRACE, DID YOU STILL HAVE THE
OK CUT?
IF SO, SEVERAL THINGS REGARDING
CHRIS.
YOU ARE CORRECT THAT SHORT TERM
RENTALS ARE VERY LIKELY A
COMMERCIAL USE IN THIS STATE
APPELLATE COURTS HAVEN'T FIRMLY
DECIDED THERE'S AN UNPUBLISHED
MICHIGAN COURT OF APPEALS
OPINION FROM 2021 AND JURY HOME
ASSOCIATION WHERE THE COURT
HELD THAT SHORT TERM RENTALS
DID NOT ESTABLISH RESIDENTIAL
USE.
BUT RENTING THE PROPERTY IS A
RENTAL PLACE FOR PROPERTY AND
THE RELEASE IS ALSO A
COMMERCIAL USE AND BOTH THE
CITY AND THE APPLICANT STATED
VERY CLEARLY IT IS NOT BEING
DISPUTED THAT IT WAS USED AS A
RENTAL WHETHER SHORT OR LONG
TERM BEFORE THE ORDINANCE.
OUR JOB HERE IS TO FOLLOW
MICHIGAN LAW THE CITY IS A
PIECE OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN
MUST OUR MICHIGAN LAW BY
UPHOLDING THE CITY'S LITERAL
APPLICATION.
THE ORDINANCE AND STAFF DID IT
CORRECTLY.
WE'RE ASKING MISS DEEGAN TO BUY
A LAWSUIT THAT SHE WILL IN MY
OPINION WIN AND I THINK WE
SHOULD FORCE THAT ON HER.
I'LL JUST REPEAT WHAT I SAID
BEFORE.
THIS IS A VERY CLEAR SITUATION
THAT A NON CONFORMING USE THE
ONLY BE ABANDONED BY THE OWNER
NEAR PASSAGE OF TIME A
DISCONTINUANCE IS COMPLETELY
INSUFFICIENT.
THE CITY IS FLAT OUT WRONG IN
THIS CASE NO IFS, ANDS OR BUTS
.
SIT HERE.
I'LL BE VOTING TO SUPPORT THIS
SIMILAR REASONS AND THEN ALSO
JUST YOU CAN IMAGINE ANY OTHER
TYPE OF BUSINESS OR USE OF A
STORE WENT OUT OF BUSINESS FOR
A LITTLE BIT FOR COVID WE
WOULDN'T CHANGE THEIR ZONING
DESIGNATION.
M. ARGUMENT IS COMMENCING SO IF
YES GO AHEAD.
OK SO I APPRECIATE YOUR
COMMENTS DAVE.
YOU REFERRED TO THIS SEVERAL
TIMES AS A BUSINESS AND IT'S
THE SAME AS ANY RENTAL
REGULATION BUSINESS.
BUT I'M A LANDLORD FOR ME ASIDE
FROM WHETHER THEY APPLIED THE
ORDINANCE CORRECTLY OR NOT,
IT'S CLEAR THAT SHORT RENTALS
ARE A BUSINESS AS IS LONG TERM
RENT.
NO, NO.
IT IS ABOUT THE EFFECT THE USE
HAS ON THE AREA RIGHT IN THE
EFFECT THAT LONG TERM RENTALS
HAVE ON A RESIDENTIAL AREA IT'S
BY DEFINITION VERY DIFFERENT
FROM THE EFFECT THAT SHORT TERM
RENTALS HAVE ON THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
ALSO THE IMPLICATION THAT WE DO
NOT DISCONTINUE USES BASED ON
TIME OF NOT USING THEM IS
INCORRECT OFTENTIMES ESPECIALLY
IN THE STATE OF MICHIGAN
ESPECIALLY USES PERMITTED USES
HAVE A DATE ASSOCIATED WITH
THEIR OBSOLESCENCE.
IF YOU DISCONTINUE THE USE OF A
OF SOMETHING WHETHER IT BE A
SHORT TERM RENTAL I WORK IN THE
WIRELESS INDUSTRY OR WIRELESS
TOWER WHATEVER IT MAY BE TIME
IS SUFFICIENT TO DISCONTINUE
THAT USE.
SO ANY ANY ASSERTION THAT IT
CAN'T BE DISCONTINUED WITH TIME
WHERE IT IS NOT OPERATING IS
INCORRECT.
AND I'M NOT A LAWYER.
I AM A PLANNER AND I KNOW THAT
TO BE TRUE AND SO I APPRECIATE
YOUR I THINK STAFF HAS APPLIED
THE ORDINANCE CORRECTLY.
I KNOW ATTORNEY I'M NOT GOING
TO APPLY STATE LAW TO THIS.
I THINK YOU MADE THE CORRECT
DECISION BASED ON THE
ORDINANCES THAT ARE IN PLACE
BASED ON THE CITY PRACTICES ARE
IN PLACE AND I THINK IF YOU
VOTE TO OVERTURN THIS YOU'RE
SAYING THEY INCORRECTLY APPLIED
THE RULES AND ORDINANCES OF ANN
ARBOR TO THIS AND I DO NOT
BELIEVE THAT THAT IS THE CASE.
SO I HAVE A QUESTION FOR STAFF
THE PETITIONER INDICATED THAT
SHE RECEIVED A LETTER WHEN THE
ORDINANCE WENT INTO EFFECT AND
SAID HEY, YOU NEED TO APPLY FOR
THIS WHATEVER IT IS TO KEEP
YOUR BUSINESS ACTIVE OR
FUNCTIONAL OR PERMITTED OR
WHATEVER.
WAS THERE DO YOU KNOW A DATE ON
THAT LETTER THAT SAID IF YOU'RE
IF YOU INTEND TO CONTINUE YOUR
SHORT TERM RENTAL, YOU NEED TO
APPLY OR SUBMIT SOMETHING TO
THE CITY BY X DATE.
MR MACFARLANE ANSWER THAT.
I THINK HE ALSO WANTS TO HAVE A
FEW COMMENTS AND YES, THINGS
HAVE BEEN SETTLED LIKE WE
REQUESTED THOSE TO BE SUBMITTED
PRIOR TO MARCH 1ST OF TWENTY
TWENTY ONE THE EFFECTIVE DATE
OF THE ARGUMENTS.
BUT TO CLARIFY THE CITY'S
POSITION IS THAT THEY MAY NOT
REESTABLISH THIS NONCOM
NEWS BECAUSE IT'S BEEN
DOCUMENTED THAT IT HASN'T BEEN
A SHORT TERM AND OVER THREE AND
A HALF YEARS THE UDC IS CLEAR
THAT YOU MAY NOT REESTABLISH IN
USE AFTER ONE YEAR
DISCONTINUANCE SO THOSE
TIMELINES AREN'T REALLY A PART
OF US AND I'M NOT SAYING THAT
THE CITY DIDN'T APPLY THE
CITY'S ORDINANCE CORRECTLY THE
CORRECT LANGUAGE I'M SAYING THE
CITY'S ORDINANCE IS
INCONSISTENT WITH STATE LAW AND
I'D BE GLAD TO SHARE WITH CITY
STAFF SOMETHING I PULLED OUT
MSU EXTENSION THIS AFTERNOON
ADDRESSING ABANDONMENT
OF NONCONFORMITY AND I QUOTE
FROM PART OF IT QUOTE THE
PASSAGE I'LL LEAVE THIS WITH
THIS CITY THE PASSAGE OF TIME
IS NOT ENOUGH TO ESTABLISH A
PROPERTY OWNER HAS STOPPED THE
NONCONFORMING ALREADY THERE ARE
ZONING ORDINANCE WHICH WILL
HAVE A STATEMENT SUCH AS QUOTE
AFTER ONE YEAR A DISUSED THE
NONCONFORMITY IS CONSIDERED TO
BE ABANDONED.
THAT DOES NOT WORK.
NO MATTER HOW MUCH TIME IS
PASSED TO CONSIDER A NON
CONFORMITY TO BE STOPPED, ONE
HAS TO CONSIDER MANY FACTORS.
IT'S A DETERMINATION BASED ON
THE PREPONDERANCE OF THE
FACTORS CONSIDERED.
I'LL LEAVE THIS WITH JOHN
GARBER.
I GUESS I JUST WANTED TO REPEAT
WHAT MY COLLEAGUES AND I I
DON'T THINK IT'S OUR JOB TO
ASSESS THE LEGALITY OF THE
CITY'S ORDINANCE.
THAT'S THE JOB OF THE COUNCIL
AT THE TIME AND THE ADVICE
OF STAFF INFORMING THE
ORDINANCE.
SO I THINK I WILL NOT BE VOTING
TO SUPPORT THIS.
I COMPLETELY DISAGREE.
WE ARE NOT REQUIRED TO CHECK
OUR BRAINS AT THE DOOR ALL DUE
RESPECT, THAT'S NOT WHAT I
SUGGESTED DE I'VE GOT A
QUESTION OF STAFF SO THIS IS
THE FIRST TIME I'VE SEEN
SOMETHING LIKE THIS COME BEFORE
THE ZONING BOARD AND I'VE GOT A
PROPOSED MOTION AFFIRMING THE
DECISION OF THE RENTAL HOUSING
MANAGER THAT THE STAFF IS
PLACED HERE THAT I WANT TO
CHANGE TO HAVE US OVERTURN THE
DECISION OF THE WHAT'S THE I
KNOW TO GRANT A VARIANCE WE
NEED FIVE VOTES SO A MAJORITY
OF THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE SERVING
THIRD OF OUR MEMBERSHIP TO
GRANT A AN APPEAL OR TO SIDE
WITH ONE SIDE OR THE OTHER ON
AN APPEAL.
WHAT'S OUR NUMBER THAT WE NEED
?
I MEAN IF WE HAVE SEVEN PEOPLE
HERE AND WE HAVE FOUR TO THREE
VOTE, DOES THE MAJORITY WIN?
I MEAN THIS IS NOT A VARIANCE.
IT'S SO SO SECTION SO SECTION
FIVE POINT TWENTY NINE POINT
TWELVE APPEALS TO THE ZIBA
SUBSECTION NINE STATES THE
CONCURRING VOTE OF A MAJORITY
OF THE MEMBERS OF THE ZIBA IS
NECESSARY TO REVERSE AN ORDER
REQUIREMENT DECISION OR
DETERMINATION OF AN
ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL OFFICIAL
OR BODY.
OK, SO WE NEED FIVE TO OVERTURN
SAYS A MAJORITY.
A MAJORITY OF THE PEOPLE SERVE
BOARD SO THAT WE CAN TOTIE THAT
THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE SERVING IS
DIFFERENT THAN THE NUMBER
OF PEOPLE IN ATTENDANCE.
WE HAVE A QUORUM WITH WHAT
SEVEN MEMBERS?
YES, WE NEED A MAJORITY
OF THAT.
SO THAT'S FOUR NOT THE WAY I
HEARD THAT.
YEAH, I HEARD THAT AS THE
MAJORITY OF THE TOTAL BOARD
WHICH WOULD BE FIVE FOUR DO YOU
HEAR THAT IN THE CONCURRING
VOTE OF A MAJORITY OF THE
MEMBERS BUT NOT MEMBERS PRESENT
NOT MEMBERS.
RIGHT.
WELL WELL SO I I MEAN NOT YET.
I'LL HOLD OFF IF THERE IS
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
I'M NOT SURE HOW MUCH MORE
FURTHER DISCUSSION WE HAVE.
I THINK THE POSITIONS ARE CLEAR
BUT I'M PREPARED TO MAKE AN
EMOTION AND MAKE A MOTION TO
OVERTURN THE STAFF DECISION AND
IF IT GOES DOWN THEN IT'S AS
STATED BY OUR CHAIR AT THE
OPENING OF THE MEETING THE
APPELLANT HAS THE RIGHT TO GO
TO CIRCUIT COURT
TO CREATE A
NEW MOTION.
JUST READ THE EXISTING MOTION
THIS BEFORE YOU AND THEN YOU GO
I'M GOING TO MAKE THE MOTION
THE WAY I WANT WHICH IS TO
OVERTURN THAT'S FINE THAT I
KNOW I DON'T KNOW.
I'M SORRY.
I DON'T HAVE THE SHEET FROM
YOU.
I LIKE THIS IDEA OF MAKING THE
MOTION IN THE AFFIRMATIVE.
RIGHT.
SORRY IS THAT YOU IS IT OK
MA'AM?
I'M SORRY SIR.
THE OH SO YOU'RE SAYING YOU
WOULD MAKE A MOTION TO OVERTURN
STAFF'S DECISION?
CARASSO A YES VOTE WOULD BE TO
OVERTURN IN SUPPORT OF THE
APPLICANT.
CORRECT.
JUST AS MOST OF OUR VOTES YES.
IS IN SUPPORT OF THE APPELLANT
AND NO VOTE WOULD BE AGREEING
WITH THE CITY'S INTERPRETATION
BECAUSE NO IT'S NOT HEREBY
AFFIRMS THE DECISION IF THAT'S
NOT WHAT I WANT TO DO, YES AND
NO VOTE WOULD AFFIRM THAT THE
WAY I'M GOING I'M GOING TO MAKE
THE MOTION AND PEOPLE CAN VOTE
YES.
MAKING PEOPLE COULD MAKE A
DIFFERENT MOTION.
ZEBA TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO
ZERO TWO FIVE ONE ELEVEN LONG
MIDLANE ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY OVERTURNS THE DECISION
OF THE RENTAL HOUSING MANAGER
THAT THE SUBJECT PROPERTY DOES
NOT MEET THE REQUIREMENTS
OF SECTION FIVE POINT THREE
THREE POINT SIX NONCOM FORMING
SHORT TERM NON PRINCIPAL
RESIDENTS AND SECTION FIVE
POINT THREE TWO POINT ONE
SUBSECTION D NON CONFORMING USE
THE SHORT TERM RENTAL LICENSE
TO RENT FOR LESS THAN 30 DAYS
HAS HEREBY BEEN GRANTED.
THAT'S THE MOTION I'M MAKING OR
SECOND.
YEAH I DON'T KNOW.
I DON'T THINK THAT THAT LAST
STATEMENT IS APPLICABLE BECAUSE
US OVERTURNING THE CITY'S
DECISION DOESN'T GRANT THEM A
TAKE OUT OF THE LAST STATEMENT
.
SO IT'S WE'RE JUST OVERTURNING
THE DECISION OF THE RENTAL
HOUSING ADMINISTRATOR IF WE
APPROVE THIS WITH FIVE VOTES,
OK, SHOULD WE READ THE MOTION?
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
WELL, HERE'S THING WHAT IF WE
MAKE THE MOTION TO AFFIRM AND
THAT JUST ONLY RECEIVES FOUR
VOTES THEN THAT FAILS TO WRITE
.
SO THEN WE'RE IN A IN LIMBO
BASICALLY NO.
THEN THEY'VE BEEN DENIED IT'S
BEEN RIGHT.
IF IT DOESN'T GET FOUR
AFFIRMATIVE VOTES IT'S IT'S
DENIED EVERY FIVE I'M SORRY SO
THE CASE OF SO I OF TO MOVE OUT
OR FOUR FOR VOTE OR ANY VOTE
THAT'S LESS THAN FIVE FOR ONE
SIDE IT'S A DENIAL BUT THIS IS
NOT A VARIANCE WHAT WE'RE IT'S
AN APPEAL OF A DECISION.
>> SO IN THAT CASE THE APPEAL
WOULD BE DENIED IF THERE'S NOT
FIVE VOTES.
OH I SEE WHAT YOU'RE SAYING NOW
IF WE'RE VOTING TO AFFIRM THEN
HE GETS FOUR VOTES THEN WE'RE
NOT AFFIRMING THE CITY WE
POSITION SO WE DON'T AFFIRM THE
DECISION WHICH THEN LEAVES IT
ALL IN LIMBO.
SO I SEE WHAT YOU'RE SAYING.
OK, BUT I'M WILLING TO MAKE
THAT WAY AND THEN WE CAN COME
WE CAN COME DOWN WITH FOUR TO
THREE OR THREE TO FOUR VOTES
AND NOT AFFIRM THE CITY'S
DECISION AND THEN WHAT HAPPENS
?
SO I OK, THIS MOTION IS TO
OVERTURN THE ADMINISTRATIVE
DECISION PROCESS, CORRECT?
YES.
IF YOU SUPPORTED IT YOU WILL BE
OVERTURNING STAFF'S DECISION.
IF YOU OPPOSE IT, YOU WILL BE
SUPPORTING STAFF DECISION.
CORRECT?
OK, I SUPPORT THAT.
I SUPPORT THAT MOTION.
IT'S CLEAR.
SO I KNOW IT'S A STAFF I GUESS
IT'S TO OVERTURN STAFF
DECISION, CORRECT?
YES.
I THINK THAT PROVIDES MOST
CLARITY I LIKE FOR AND SO THE
MOTION IS ON THE FLOOR.
IT'S BEEN SECONDED BY PRESIDENT
IF THERE'S ANY FURTHER
DISCUSSION OR SECOND YOUR
SECOND THOUGHTS DID IT OK SORRY
I WASN'T PAYING ATTENTION TODAY
ALL RIGHT.
IS EVERYONE CLEAR ON THE MOTION
READY TO VOTE SO A VOTE IN
FAVOR OF THIS MOTION IS FOR THE
APPELLANT MOTION VOTE AGAINST
IS TO SUPPORT THE CITY STAFF'S
DENIAL TO SUPPORT CITY STAFF'S
INTERPRETATION OF THE ORDINANCE
.
YES, OK, DATE GIVATI YES TUD
YES CHRIS NO GRACE NO I VOTE NO
DARMA NO SADARA YES.
OK THE REQUEST TO OVERTURN
STAFF'S INTERPRETATION OF THE
ORDINANCE IS DENIED
.
MOVING ON TO PETITION ZUBAZ ONE
TWO THREE DASH ZERO ZERO TWO
ZERO ONE ZERO ZERO SIX PACARD
ST. JOHN GIVE ME ONE SECOND.
WE'RE HAVING TECHNICAL
DIFFICULTIES FOR SOME REASON
ZUMIEZ KICKED US OUT OF THE
MEETING
.
I SHOULD BE IN THE MEETING.
IT SAYS I'M IN THE MEETING BUT
IT'S NOT ALLOWING ME TO GET CAN
YOU CHECK THIS OUT REAL QUICK
SAID IT WAS DISCONNECTED AND SO
NOW I'M BACK IN RIGHT.
SO IT SAYS I'M SCREEN SHARING
RIGHT.
AND SO WE'RE SEEING YOUR SCREEN
BUT IT'S NOT ALLOWING ME TO
ADVANCE YOU BECAUSE OTHERWISE
GO ON KICK ME OUT.
ALL RIGHT.
SO IS IT ALL RIGHT?
YEAH.
ALL RIGHT.
YEAH, YOU DID DISCONNECT FOR A
MINUTE BUT YEAH, SORRY QUARTER
DAVE IS HE COMING BACK?
GO AHEAD, JOHN.
WE'RE MOVING ON TO WE DIDN'T
RECESS SO ONE THOUSAND SIX
PACKARD STREET IS THE NEXT
POSITION BEFORE US THIS
EVENING.
CHRIS.
VESSELS REPRESENTING THE
PROPERTY OWNER IS SEEKING
APPROVAL FROM SECTION FIVE
POINT THIRTY TWO POINT TWO
SUBSECTION C ALTERATION TO A
NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
THE APPLICANTS ARE REQUESTING
TO CONVERT THE BASEMENT INTO A
THREE BEDROOM.
THE ROOF WILL BE ALTERED BY THE
ADDITION OF TWO NEW GABLE'S
THAT WILL CREATE NEW LIVING
SPACE ON THE THIRD FLOOR.
THE EXISTING THREE UNIT RENTAL
PROPERTY CONTAINS AN EFFICIENCY
APARTMENT AND TWO BEDROOM AND
THREE BEDROOM UNITS ON THE
UPPER FLOORS.
THE ALTERATION WILL INCREASE
THE NUMBER OF BEDROOMS TO
THIRTEEN WHILE THE NUMBER
OF UNITS REMAINS AT THREE.
THE CORNER LOT PROPERTY IS
ZONED OUR FORESEE MULTIPLE
FAMILY DWELLING AND IS NOT
CONFORMING FOR FALLOT AREA LOT
WITH SIDE SET IN FRONT SET BACK
ALONG BROOKWOOD PLACE THE
SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED AT
THE INTERSECTION OF BROOKWOOD
PLACE AND PACKARD STREET AND
THE BERN'S PARK NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE HOME IS APPROXIMATELY ONE
THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED FORTY FOUR
SQUARE FEET AND SIZE AND WAS
BUILT IN NINETEEN TWENTY FIVE.
THE EXISTING RENTAL PROPERTY
CONTAINS THREE UNITS A THREE
BEDROOM ON THE FIRST FLOOR, A
FOUR BEDROOM THE SECOND AND
THIRD FLOORS EXCUSE ME A FOUR
BEDROOM ON THE SECOND AND THIRD
FLOORS AND A ONE BEDROOM IN THE
BASEMENT.
THE PROPOSED CHANGES WILL
INCREASE THE FLOOR FIRST FLOOR
UNIT TO FOUR BEDROOMS, THE
SECOND AND THIRD FLOOR UNITS,
THE SIX BEDROOMS AND THE
BASEMENT UNIT WILL INCREASE TO
THREE BEDROOMS LEVEL TWO EV
CHARGING STATIONS WILL BE ADDED
IN THE REAR OF THE HOUSE FOR
ADDITIONAL COMMUNITY BENEFIT.
THE ONLY EXTERIOR CHANGES WILL
BE MADE TO THE EXISTING ROOF
LINE TO ACCOMMODATE MORE
FUNCTIONAL LIVING SPACE AND THE
SECOND AND THIRD FLOORS.
THERE ARE NO CHANGES BEING MADE
TO THE FOOTPRINT OF THE
BUILDING AND THE PARKING LOT
WILL WILL REMAIN IN THE SAME
CONFIGURATION.
YOU TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO THE
MONITOR'S YOU'LL SEE THE FIRST
SLIDE SHOWS THE LOCATION OF THE
SUBJECT PROPERTY IN THE CENTER
HIGHLIGHTED IN YELLOW JUST OFF
PACARD IN THE CORNER
OF ROOKWOOD.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE AREA MAP
SHOWING SURROUNDING PROPERTIES
AND EXISTING CONDITIONS AND THE
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO.
SHE'S NOW GOING ON WITH MY
COMPUTER.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SITE PLAN
AND SOME PHOTOS THAT WERE
SUBMITTED BY THE APPLICANT
.
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE
EXISTING BASEMENT AND THE FIRST
FLOOR PLANS HOW THEY CURRENTLY
ARE IN ITS CURRENT
CONFIGURATION.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE EXISTING
SECOND AND THIRD FLOOR PLANS
AND THEN NEXT SLIDES ARE THE
NEW BASEMENT AND FIRST FLOOR
PLAN.
SO YOU SEE THE NEW BASEMENT
APARTMENT ONE ON THE LEFT HAND
SIDE OF YOUR SCREEN INCREASE TO
THREE BEDROOM UNIT.
THE FIRST FLOOR GOING TO A FOUR
BEDROOM UNIT AND THEN THE
SECOND AND THIRD FLOORS
COMBINED ARE GOING TO BE SIX
BEDROOMS.
THESE ARE THE ELEVATION
DRAWINGS THAT ARE SUBMITTED
WITH THE APPLICATION.
THESE ARE THE CURRENT
ELEVATIONS OF THE OF THE
SUBJECT PROPERTY NORTH AND WEST
ELEVATION'S AND THEN THESE ARE
THE PROPOSED ELEVATIONS SHOWING
THE DORMER CHANGES IN DAUMIER
ADDITIONS
.
>> YOU CAN SEE THEM HIGHLIGHTED
IN THE GRAY THESE THE PHOTOS I
TOOK AT THE SUBJECT PROPERTY.
YOU SEE THAT I'M STANDING WITH
MY BACK TOWARDS PACARD AND AT
THE CORNER BROOKWOOD THIS IS
LOOKING AT THE SIDE OF THE
PROPERTY DOWN BROOKWOOD.
THIS IS THE OTHER ELEVATION THE
NORTH ELEVATION AND THIS IS THE
WEST ELEVATION, THE REAR OF THE
PROPERTY AND THIS IS THE
EXISTING PARKING LOT IN THE
BACK OF THE PROPERTY THAT IS
THAT CONCLUDES MY PRESENTATION.
I'LL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS YOU
HAVE AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
QUESTION FIRST TIME FOR SORRY
IF I MISSED THIS.
IN WHAT WAY IS THE EXISTING
BUILDING ON ME?
IT'S NOT CONFORMING FOR LOT
AREA LOT WITH AND SIDE IN FRONT
SETBACKS.
THANK YOU SO PRETTY MUCH ALL
THE WAY AROUND JUST ABOUT ANY
OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN BUT
THERE WILL BE NO IN EXPANSION
OR INCREASE IN THE FOOTPRINT
OF THE BUILDING JUST GOING
STRAIGHT UP VERTICALLY WITH THE
DORMER AND ROOF ADDITIONS TO
MAKE BUILDING CODE HEIGHTS AND
MEET THE MEET THE BUILDING
CODES FOR HEIGHT LIGHT
VENTILATION.
IF THE APPLICANT IS HERE YOU
MAY COME FORWARD, BEGIN YOUR
PRESENTATION LOOK.
HELLO HELLO.
SO THANKS EVERYONE FOR TAKING
UP THIS CONSIDERATION.
SO WHAT WE HAVE IT'S JUST IT'S
A VERY SIMPLE RENOVATION.
WE'RE TAKING A RENTAL.
IT'S CURRENTLY THREE UNITS.
IT ALREADY HAS IMPROVED LIVING
SPACE IN THE BASEMENT AND
BASICALLY THE ONLY THING THAT
WE'RE ASKING FOR IS TO ADD
THOSE GABLE'S OR DORMERS INTO
THE ROOF HERE SO WE CAN ADD
FUNCTIONAL LIVING SPACE ON A
TOP FLOOR.
I'M GOING FROM SEVEN TO
THIRTEEN BEDROOMS.
IT'S GOING TO HAVE ALL THE
PLUMBING, ALL OF THE H THAT YOU
KNOW, LIFE SAFETY IS ALL GOING
TO BE UPGRADED TO THE MODERN
CODES WHICH IS ACTUALLY GOING
TO ADD SOME CHARGING STATIONS
IN THE BACK WHICH I KNOW
EVERYONE LIKES.
SO YOU KNOW, JUST A VERY SIMPLE
STRAIGHTFORWARD ONE IF THERE'S
MUCH TO SAY EVERYTHING'S GOING
TO BE TAKING PLACE ON THE
INTERIOR WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF JUST ADDING THE GABLES AND
YOU KNOW, IT SHOULDN'T HAVE ANY
KIND OF IMPACT ON THE
SURROUNDING PROPERTY.
IT'S GOING TO BE A VERY NICE
FINISHED PRODUCT.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF I HAVE ABOUT
THAT.
IT SHOULD BE VERY STRAIGHT
FORWARD AND SIMPLE.
THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT I
THINK.
YEAH.
SO I'M WONDERING IT'S MOSTLY
THE CONSTRUCTION IS GOING TO BE
ON THE INTERIOR BUT YOU SAY
YOU'RE UPGRADING ALL THE
ELECTRICAL AND PLUMBING.
ARE YOU GOING TO TOTALLY GOT
THIS REHABBED JUST CURIOUS
ABOUT SO NOT NECESSARILY IT'S
GOING TO BE A SIGNIFICANT
RENOVATION JUST BECAUSE YOU
KNOW IF YOU LOOK AT THE BEFORE
AND AFTER DIAGRAMS BEDROOMS ARE
GOING TO CHANGE.
IT IS GOING TO HAVE TO BE YOU
OUTDATED PLUMBING TO CHANGE THE
LOCATIONS OF EVERYTHING SO YOU
KNOW, I'M NOT GOING TO SAY IT'S
FOR SURE GOING TO BE A FULL
GUPTE BUT YOU KNOW, WINDOWS ARE
GOING TO BE MOVED AROUND.
THERE'S GOING TO BE QUITE A BIT
OF CHANGES HAPPENING ON THE
INSIDE.
IT WILL BE MOSTLY SUBSTANTIALLY
RENOVATED.
YES, THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT
?
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
IF THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, PLEASE COME
FORWARD NOW PLEASE SIGN IN AND
STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE RECORD.
YOU'LL HAVE THREE MINUTES
.
MY NAME IS CHARLES NELSON.
I LIVE IN ANTONIETTA SINCE 1978
ROAMING CONCERNS PARKING IS
PRETTY FIERCE IN THE AREA.
IT'S A RARE OCCURRENCE DURING
THE DAY WHEN SOMEONE IS AT
SCHOOL LOSE THEIR CAR POACHERS
I CALL THEM POACHER'S COME IN
WHO ARE NOT RESIDENT AND TAKE A
PARKING SPACE ON THE STREET.
WE HAVE A BIG DEVELOPMENT ON
THE CORNER OF WHITE AND PACARD
I MEAN WHITE AND BROOKWOOD ON
THE SOUTHWEST CORNER THERE
NORTHEAST CORNER IS MARTY, THE
OWNER OF JACK'S HARDWARE AS
SOME PARTNERS AND THEY'VE BUILT
A MUCH INCREASE IN BEDROOMS AND
THAT ADDRESS RIGHT IN OUR
STREET IT'S ONLY ONE BLOCK
LONG.
SO HAVING BEEN THERE SINCE 1978
AND WATCHED PROBABLY A MAXIMUM
OF TWO CARS PER BUILDING ON THE
STREET GO TO FOUR OR FIVE AND
SOMETIMES SIX CARS WERE AND
WE'VE BEEN LIVING THERE
CONTINUALLY AND INTEND TO
CONTINUE LIVING THERE.
I WOULD LIKE TO STIPULATE THAT
INCREASING THAT MANY BEDROOMS
IS GOING TO INCREASE THE
POPULATION AND THE CAR PRESSURE
ON THE STREET AND THAT'S THE
BASIS FOR OUR PROPOSAL.
THANK YOU.
SO ANYONE ELSE WHO WISHES TO
SPEAK ON THIS PETITION IF
ANYONE ACCESSING THE MEETING
REMOTELY WISHES TO SPEAK,
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE TO RAISE
YOUR HAND OR USE THE RAISED
HAND BUTTON.
THANK YOU COURTNEY.
WITHOUT THE PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED AND WE'RE IN DISCUSSION
.
I GREW UP ON DEWEY STREET AND I
THINK I'VE SEEN BOTH OF YOU
BEFORE THE ZIBA BEFORE THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD HAS CHANGED A LOT
SINCE I WAS FIVE YEARS OLD WHEN
I MOVED ON TO DO A STREET MY
BROTHER AND I STILL OWN THE
HOUSE I GREW UP IN.
IT'S A DUPLEX.
WE'VE HAD NUMEROUS OFFERS BY MY
LANDLORDS TO PURCHASE IT AND
OF COURSE TO INCREASE THE SIZE
OF IT AND JACK UP THE RENTS AND
WE CHARGE VERY MODEST RENTS AND
THAT'S WHY OUR FIRST FLOOR
TENANT HAS BEEN THERE FOR 12 TO
15 YEARS.
I CAN'T EVEN REMEMBER HOW LONG
AND THE SECOND FLOOR TENANT I
MET WHEN I FIRST RAN FOR THE
BOARD OF TRUSTEES AT THE
COMMUNITY COLLEGE AND HE IS IN
THE POLI SCI CLUB AT WASHTENAW
COMMUNITY COLLEGE AND HAD A
CANDIDATE FORUM.
HE'S THE UPSTAIRS HEAD AND HE'S
BEEN THERE NOW SIX YEARS.
OF COURSE IF WE EVER SOLD THE
PLACE TO ONE OF THESE LANDLORDS
WHO WANTS TO UPSIZE AND
INCREASE THE RENTS, THOSE
TENANTS WOULD GO SOMEWHERE ELSE
AND THE RENTS WOULD BE MUCH
HIGHER AND THERE'D BE MORE
BEDROOMS.
I TOTALLY SYMPATHIZE WITH THE
PEOPLE THAT SPOKE HERE WITH THE
SPEAKER HERE ABOUT THE PARKING
SITUATION.
THE CITY HAS DOES NOT SHARE
YOUR VIEW.
THEY'RE DOING EVERYTHING THEY
CAN TO TAKE PARKING OFF THE
STREET.
THEY'VE GOT MORE AGGRESSIVE
ENFORCEMENT OF CARS PARKED IN
FRONT OF THE FRONT PORCH.
IT'S SO THEY'RE TICKETING CARS
IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD AND IT'S
DATA THEY THINK THAT CARS ARE
GOING TO DISAPPEAR IN THE NEXT
YEAR BECAUSE OF CLIMATE CHANGE
AND EVERYBODY IS GOING TO BE
RIDING BICYCLES.
THAT'S NOT THE CASE.
HOWEVER, THE CITY AND I AGREE
WITH THIS POLICY OF THE CITY
HAS MADE A DETERMINATION THEY
WANT TO INCREASE DENSITY AND
THESE ARE UNFORTUNATELY THE
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT THEY'RE
LOOKING AT AND THE UNIVERSITY
WHEN I WAS AT THE UNIVERSITY
THE STUDENT POPULATION WAS
THIRTY THOUSAND OR THIRTY ONE
THOUSAND.
NOW IT'S WELL OVER FORTY
THOUSAND FIFTY TWO OK SO WELL
OVER FIFTY THOUSAND.
I STAND CORRECTED AND SO AND
WHO KNOWS PROBABLY GOING UP I
KNOW THEY'RE BUILDING NEW DORMS
AND THINGS LIKE THAT SO IT'S
YOU KNOW THEY'RE THE OWNER IS
ASKING FOR AN ALTERATION TO A
NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
THEY'RE NOT CHANGING THE
FOOTPRINT OF THE BUILDING.
IT'S A VERY IN TERMS OF THE
METRICS WE HAVE TO CHECK TO
APPROVE THIS, IT'S VERY IT'S A
VERY EASY APPROVAL FOR MEMBERS
OF THIS BOARD AND PARKING IS
NOT I MEAN I I CONSIDER IT AN
ISSUE AND I'VE FREQUENTLY VOTED
AGAINST IT.
BUT THE WILL AT THIS BOARD IS
GOING TO BE IN FAVOR OF THIS
AND I'LL PROBABLY GO ALONG GET
ALONG TO SUPPORT THIS AND I DO
AGREE WITH THE POLICY TO
INCREASE DENSITY ALTHOUGH I DO
DISAGREE WITH SOME OF THE OTHER
CITY POLICIES.
SO I'M GOING TO RELUCTANTLY
VOTE FOR THIS.
THIS IS MY NEIGHBORHOOD AND I
FEEL BAD ABOUT THE CHANGES I
YEAH THAT'S JUST I'VE EXPLAINED
MY VOTE WHICH IS GOING TO THE
SPEAKER HERE TONIGHT.
YOU'RE PROBABLY GOING TO BE
DISHEARTENED BY BUT I'VE
FINALLY CAVED IN AND I'M VOTING
FOR THESE THINGS.
HOLD ON.
I CAN I THERE'S SOMEONE IS
THERE MUSIC COMING OUT OF THOSE
SPEAKERS?
I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S A
GENTLEMAN DOWN THE HALL THE
SPEAKERS I CAN TELL THERE IS
MUSIC COMING FROM SOMEWHERE.
YEAH, IT'S A STAFF PERSON.
I WAS IN THE KITCHEN CRYING AND
HE IT WAS HIM ARE THERE ANY
OTHER DISCUSSION FOR MY WIFE TO
SPEAK?
I'M SORRY THE PUBLIC HEARINGS
CLOSED ANY OTHER DISCUSSION
GOVERNMENT JUST WANT TO SAY
LOOK FORWARD TO SUPPORTING
THIS.
I MEAN I THINK AS YOU SAID, WE
NEED MORE DENSITY.
THIS IS EXACTLY WHERE WE NEED
IT.
AS WE KNOW DORMS ARE GOING THAT
FAR FROM HERE.
SO I HAVE NO PROBLEM SUPPORTING
US WHATSOEVER.
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION WITH
EMOTION I'M PREPARED TO MAKE
MOTION.
THANK YOU, DAVE.
ZIEBA TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO
ZERO TWO ZERO ONE THOUSAND SIX
PACARD STREET ALTERATION TO A
NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE
.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF FROM
SECTION
FIVE POINT THREE TO
POINT TO ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE TO ALLOW
THE BASEMENT TO BE CONVERTED TO
A THREE BEDROOM UNIT.
THE ROOF LINE WILL BE ALTERED
BY THE ADDITION OF TWO NEW
GABLES AND A HEIGHT INCREASE TO
CREATE LIVING SPACE ON THE
THIRD FLOOR.
THE NUMBER OF UNITS FOR THE
PROPERTY ARE TO REMAIN AT THREE
WHILE THE BEDROOM COUNT
INCREASES TO THIRTEEN.
THE INTERIOR ALTERATION IS TO
BE CONSTRUCTED PER THE
SUBMITTED PLANS.
THANK YOU DAVE HAS A MORE THANK
YOU CHRIS GRACE.
YES, I ALSO VOTE YES DARMA YES.
SADARA YES.
DAVE HAVARTI.
YES YES CHRIS YES.
THE REQUEST IS GRANTED.
THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO ZERO TWO
EIGHT EIGHT ZERO THREE
MACKINLEY AVENUE I WILL NOTE
QUICKLY I NEED TO EXCUSE MYSELF
SO IT'S GOING TO TAKE OVER AS
CHAIR JOHN TAKE IT AWAY ROB
BURROWES REPRESENTING THE
PROPERTY OWNER IS SEEKING
APPROVAL FROM SECTION FIVE
POINT THIRTY TWO POINT TWO
SUBSECTION C ALTERATION TO A
NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE THE
APPLICANTS ARE REQUESTING TO
CONVERT THE EXISTING BASEMENT
BELOW FOR TOWNHOME UNITS INTO
HABITABLE SPACE CONSISTING
OF TWO BEDROOMS FOR EACH UNIT
ABOVE WALLS WILL BE ADDED IN
ALL FOUR UNITS IN THE BASEMENT
TO MAKE THEM INDEPENDENT
VERTICALLY THROUGH THE TOP
LEVEL.
THE BEDROOM COUNT FOR EACH UNIT
WILL INCREASE FROM TWO BEDROOMS
TO FOUR BEDROOMS THE PROPERTIES
ON TO OUR FOUR MULTIPLE FAMILY
DWELLING DISTRICT AND
NONCONFORMING FALLOT AREA AND
REAR SET BACK THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY IS LOCATED ON THE
NORTHEAST CORNER AT THE
INTERSECTION OF MCKINLEY AVENUE
AND WHITE STREET AND THE BERN'S
PARK NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE HOME WAS BUILT IN 1890 AND
IS APPROXIMATELY FOUR THOUSAND
SEVEN HUNDRED SIX SQUARE FEET
IN SIZE.
THE PROPOSED PROJECT WILL ADD
TWO BEDROOMS AND ONE BATHROOM
AND DIVIDING WALLS BETWEEN EACH
UNIT.
THE UNIT ACCOUNT WILL REMAIN AT
FOUR AND THERE ARE NO EXTERIOR
CHANGES BEING PROPOSED AT THIS
TIME.
YOU'LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO
THE MONITOR'S YOU SEE THE FIRST
SLIDE SHOWS THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY HIGHLIGHTED IN THE
CENTER OF YOUR SCREEN AT THE
CORNER OF MCKINLEY AND WHITE.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE AERIAL
PHOTOS SHOWING SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES AND NEIGHBORING
CONDITIONS.
SEE IT'S JUST EAST OF SOUTH ST.
AND THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN'S ATHLETIC FACILITY
.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY AND LIKE I SAID, IT IS
NOT CONFORMING FOR THE REAR
STEP BACK WHICH IS ON THIS SIDE
OF THE PROPERTY AND YOU SEE THE
FOUR ENTRANCES TO THE TOWNHOMES
ACCESS OFF THE SIDEWALK.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION THE NEXT SLIDES ARE
THE FLOOR PLANS THAT WERE
SUBMITTED BY THE APPLICANT.
YOU SEE THE EXISTING BASEMENT
FLOOR PLAN WHICH IS OPEN
UNDERNEATH TO ALL FOUR TOWNHOME
UNITS.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE EXISTING
LEVEL ONE FLOOR PLAN.
LEVEL TO FLOOR PLANS AND
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE EXISTING
EXISTING LEVEL THREE FLOOR
LEVEL TO FLOOR PLANS AND
PLAN.
EXISTING LEVEL THREE FLOOR
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE PROPOSED
PLAN.
BASEMENT FLOOR PLAN AND YOU SEE
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE PROPOSED
THE TWO BEDROOMS AND THE
BASEMENT FLOOR PLAN AND YOU SEE
BATHROOM IN EACH UNIT WITH
THE TWO BEDROOMS AND THE
MECHANICALS.
BATHROOM IN EACH UNIT WITH
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT I
MECHANICALS.
TOOK AT MY INSPECTION OF THE
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT I
PROPERTY.
TOOK AT MY INSPECTION OF THE
YOU SEE THIS IS FROM BROOKWOOD
PROPERTY.
WHICH ENTRANCE OF THE HOME I
YOU SEE THIS IS FROM BROOKWOOD
MEAN MACKINLAY EXCUSE ME TOO
WHICH ENTRANCE OF THE HOME I
MANY ADDRESSES IN MY HEAD
MEAN MACKINLAY EXCUSE ME TOO
TONIGHT AND THIS IS THE BACK
MANY ADDRESSES IN MY HEAD
OF THE PROPERTY, THE REAR
TONIGHT AND THIS IS THE BACK
OF THE BUILDING AND THE
OF THE PROPERTY, THE REAR
DRIVEWAY.
OF THE BUILDING AND THE
THIS IS SHOWING THE SOUTH SIDE
DRIVEWAY.
OR THE EAST SIDE OF THE
THIS IS SHOWING THE SOUTH SIDE
PROPERTY BETWEEN THE ADJACENT
OR THE EAST SIDE OF THE
PROPERTY AND THE DRIVEWAY GO IN
PROPERTY BETWEEN THE ADJACENT
BETWEEN THE TWO BUILDINGS THIS
PROPERTY AND THE DRIVEWAY GO IN
IS LOOKING AT FROM THE BACK
BETWEEN THE TWO BUILDINGS THIS
OF THE PROPERTY OUT TOWARDS
IS LOOKING AT FROM THE BACK
WHITE STREET.
OF THE PROPERTY OUT TOWARDS
JUST ANOTHER PERSPECTIVE THE
WHITE STREET.
FRONT OF THE VILLAGE YOU SEE
JUST ANOTHER PERSPECTIVE THE
THE FIELD HOUSE IN THE
FRONT OF THE VILLAGE YOU SEE
BACKGROUND THAT CONCLUDES MY
THE FIELD HOUSE IN THE
PRESENTATION.
BACKGROUND THAT CONCLUDES MY
I TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT YOU
PRESENTATION.
MAY HAVE AT THIS TIME.
I TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT YOU
NO QUESTIONS.
MAY HAVE AT THIS TIME.
JUST THE COMMENT.
NO QUESTIONS.
OH, IT'S NOT YOUR FIELD HOUSE
JUST THE COMMENT.
ANYMORE.
OH, IT'S NOT YOUR FIELD HOUSE
IT'S AREA SORRY.
ANYMORE.
YES.
IT'S AREA SORRY.
FIELD HOUSE WAS IN THE DAYS
YES.
OF KANSI RUSSELL.
FIELD HOUSE WAS IN THE DAYS
I'M SHOWING MY AGE.
OF KANSI RUSSELL.
ALL RIGHT.
I'M SHOWING MY AGE.
THE APPLICANT PLEASE STATE YOUR
ALL RIGHT.
NAME CLEARLY SIR.
THE APPLICANT PLEASE STATE YOUR
AND THEN YOU HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
NAME CLEARLY SIR.
VERY GOOD.
AND THEN YOU HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
THANK YOU, ROB ROSSEAU STUDIO
VERY GOOD.
REPRESENTING THE PETITIONER.
THANK YOU, ROB ROSSEAU STUDIO
I WILL SIGN IN ONCE AND AVOID
REPRESENTING THE PETITIONER.
IT THE NEXT TWO TIMES
.
EXCUSE ME.
THANK YOU JOHN FOR VERY CLEAR
POSITION MUCH LIKE THE LAST
ONE.
THIS IS AN ALTERATION TO A
NONCONFORMIST STRUCTURE.
THE LOT IS WOEFULLY
NONCONFORMING.
IT'S RATHER UNIQUE.
IT'S RELATIVELY AN INTACT
BUILDING BOTH EXTERNALLY AND
INTERNALLY.
YOU CAN SEE IN THE PHOTOGRAPHS
SOME SOME UPDATES HAVE BEEN
DONE RECENTLY BEFORE THE BEFORE
THE OWNER ACQUIRED IT.
IT'S ACTUALLY A ORIGINALLY
DESIGNED AS A FOUR UNIT REMAINS
A FOUR UNIT VERY MODEST
UPDATE'S HAVE EVER OCCURRED IN
THE INTERIOR CHEAPIES.
WE'RE DOWN TO GO AHEAD.
OK, THANK YOU.
I WASN'T EXPECTING THAT SO IT
WAS A BY MY DEFINITION LOOKING
AT IT SEE THE INTERIOR DESIGN
AS A TOWNHOUSE.
JOHN BROUGHT THE NAME UP AS
WELL.
THE UNIQUE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
THIS AND TOWNHOMES IS THAT THE
WALLS ARE NOT GOING TO CONTINUE
DOWN TO FOUNDATION WHAT THE
WHAT WE ARE PROPOSING IS THE
WALLS TO CONTINUE DOWN THE
FOUNDATION DIRECTLY UNDERNEATH
THE FOUR UNITS INDEPENDENTLY
THERE ARE PRESENTLY STAIRS THAT
GO DOWN INDEPENDENT RIGHT NOW
FROM EACH OF THE UNITS WHICH
WERE JUST REPURPOSING THEY WERE
ALREADY INTERCONNECTED IS THE
SIMPLEST WAY TO DEFINE IT.
THE WE'RE PROPOSING TWO
BEDROOMS IN THE BASEMENT WILL
OBVIOUSLY HAVE TO DEVELOP THAT
TO MATCH EGRESS AND LIGHT AND
VENTILATION LEVELS.
THE ONLY OTHER THING BECAUSE IT
HAS COME UP ALREADY THERE IS
PARKING ASSOCIATED WITH THIS ON
SITE.
IT'S NOT DEFINED WITH STRIPING
OR ANYTHING ELSE BUT ACCORDING
TO THE OWNER THEY CAN PARK FOUR
COMFORTABLY SIX A LITTLE BIT
MORE MODESTLY.
THE HE HAS INFORMED ME THAT IF
PARKING DOES BECOME AN ISSUE
THE OWNER DOES OWN A PROPERTY
OF ONE ONE ONE SEVEN.
SO STATE WHICH HAS SIXTEEN
PARKING SPACES AND ONE DWELLING
UNIT SIX BEDROOM WHICH THEY
WOULD FUNCTION AT LEAST TO
THEMSELVES TO PROVIDE OVERFLOW
IF REQUIRED.
ANY QUESTIONS I'M HAPPY TO
PROVIDE IT.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT
?
NONE.
RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THAT'S USUALLY ANYBODY WHO IS
PHYSICALLY HERE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO COMMENT ON THIS.
I DON'T SEE ANYBODY GETTING UP
.
COURTNEY, ARE THERE ANY
CALLERS?
THERE ARE NO CALLERS OK AND I
DON'T THINK THERE ARE ANY
EMAILS OR LETTERS OUTSIDE THIS.
RIGHT.
OK, SO THAT THE PUBLIC PORTION
IS CLOSE AND WE'RE IN
DISCUSSION AS CANDICE SAYS.
IS THERE ANYTHING TO DISCUSS?
YES.
YES TO PRIVATE BECAUSE
CURRENTLY WE ALL OF US TO VOTE
YES.
YES RIGHT THAT THANK YOU.
I'M GLAD YOU
STARTED NOTICING A
LOT OF JACKETS ON.
IT IS COLD IN HEELS.
I MEAN SOMEBODY FORGET THEY
THROW A FEW CALLS ON THE NEW
PAINTING.
YEAH, IT IS COLD.
I DO REMEMBER THE ROOM
EVERYTHING IS COLD FREEZING I
BELIEVE JOHN
SO DAVE, WE'RE IN
DISCUSSIONS ABOUT NOTHING TO
SAY.
YOU CAN SPEAK I CAN GO HOME AND
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
I HAVE NOTHING TO ADD THAT I
DIDN'T SAY TO THE LAST ONE.
I FEEL LIKE THIS PETITION IS
THE SAME.
IT'S AN ALTERATION WOULD NOT
CONFIRM INSTRUCTION TO MAKE
SURE THAT THE HOW DO YOU WANT
ME TO MAKE IT OK GO FOR IT.
I FEEL LIKE I'M THE SUBSTITUTE
HERE.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THREE TO
POINT TO SUBSECTION C
ALTERATION TO A NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURE TO ALLOW THE BASEMENT
TO BE CONVERTED TO A TWO
BEDROOM STRUCTURE SORRY TO BE
CONVERTED CONVERTED TO TWO
BEDROOMS ATTACHED TO THE FOUR
TOWNHOME UNITS ABOVE.
THERE ARE NO EXTERIOR CHANGES
PLANNED AT THIS TIME.
THE INTERIOR ALTERATION IS TO
BE CONSTRUCTED HERE THE MINUTE
PLANS AND SUPPORTS RIGHT SO
KANDICE BE HERE IS ABSENT I
VOTE YES DERMO YES SEDRA YES
CHRIS YES GRACE YES RINGS AND
DAVE GIVATI YES ALL RIGHT SIX
IN FAVOR UNOPPOSED IT PASSES
GREAT YOU'D BETTER PERSON AND
ONTO OUR NEXT ITEM WHICH IS
ZEBA YOU NUMBER TWENTY THREE
DASH ZERO ZERO TWO SEVEN THREE
THIRTY ONE EAST END STREET AND
JOB PROSPERO'S REPRESENTING THE
PROPERTY OWNER IS SEEKING
APPROVAL FROM SECTION FIVE
POINT THIRTY TWO POINT TWO
SUBSECTION C ALTERATION TO A
NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE TO
CONSTRUCT A SIX HUNDRED
THIRTY
TWO SQUARE FOOT ADDITION TO THE
REAR OF THE EXISTING TWO UNIT
RENTAL PROPERTY.
THE PROPOSED ADDITIONAL WILL
INCREASE THE BEDROOM COUNT FROM
TWO BEDROOMS TO EIGHT BEDROOMS
WHILE THE COUNT REMAINS AT TWO.
THE UNIT COUNT EXCUSE ME THE
EXISTING SIX SPACE PARKING LOT
WILL BE REDUCED FROM SIX SPACES
TO FOUR SPACES.
THE PROPERTY IS OWNED OUR
FORESE MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT AND IS NOT CONFORMING
FOR LOT AREA LOT WITH AND THE
SIDE SETBACKS.
THE PROPERTY IS LOCATED IN THE
OLD FOURTH WARD HISTORIC
DISTRICT PROPERTY IS LOCATED AT
THE NORTH SIDE OF EAST AND
STREET EAST OF NORTH FOURTH
AVENUE AND WEST OF NORTH
DIVISION STREET.
THE HOME WAS BUILT IN NINETEEN
ONE AND IS APPROXIMATELY ONE
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET IN SIZE.
THE PROPOSED GROUND FLOOR
ADDITION TO UNIT B WILL CONTAIN
TWO BEDROOMS AND A BATHROOM.
THE ADDITION WILL HAVE A
BASEMENT WITH THREE BEDROOMS
AND TWO BATHROOMS FOR A TOTAL
OF FIVE BEDROOMS AND THREE
BATHROOMS.
UNIT A HAS A LIVING ROOM AND A
KITCHEN ON THE FIRST FLOOR WITH
STAIRS LEADING TO THE BEDROOMS
ABOVE A NEW WING ADDITION IS
BEING PROPOSED THAT WILL ALLOW
FOR TWO NEW BEDROOMS AND TWO
BATHROOMS UNIT A WILL INCREASE
TO THREE BEDROOMS AND THREE
BATHROOMS ONCE THE CONSTRUCTION
IS COMPLETE.
THE SECOND STORY WING IS
ADDITION IS NOT PART OF THIS
ALTERATION REQUEST TURN YOUR
ATTENTION TO THE MONITORS.
THE FIRST SLIDE SHOWS THE
LOCATION ZONING MAP AND THE
SUBJECT PARCELS HIGHLIGHTED IN
THE CENTER OF THE SCREEN AND
IT'S RIGHT ACROSS THE STREET
FROM US.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS A LOCATION
MAP AND YOU SEE EAST IN AND
CITY HALL WHERE WE ARE
CURRENTLY LOCATED JUST TO THE
NORTH OF US.
NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE PROPOSED
AND EXISTING SITE PLANS.
THE EXISTING SITE PLAN IS ON
YOUR RIGHT.
THE PROPOSED IS ON YOUR LEFT.
YOU SEE THAT SECOND STORY WING
ADDITIONS THAT I TALKED ABOUT
AND THIS IS THE FIRST FLOOR
GROUND UNIT EDITION SIX HUNDRED
THIRTY TWO SQUARE FEET TO THE
BACK AND YOU SEE THE REDUCTION
OF PARKING SPACES.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS SOME
ELEVATION DRAWINGS THAT WERE
SUBMITTED BY THE APPLICANT
ALONG WITH PHOTOS OF THE
PROPERTY AND THESE ARE REAR
ELEVATIONS BEING PROPOSED
OF THE SUBJECT PROPERTY ALONG
WITH CURRENT PHOTOS ABOVE THE
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE EXISTING
BASEMENT ON THE RIGHT AND THE
PROPOSED BASEMENT AND YOU SEE
THE CONFIGURATION OF THE
PROPOSAL WITH THE TWO BEDROOMS
AND EXCUSE ME THREE BEDROOMS
AND TWO BATHROOMS THAT WILL BE
IN THE BASEMENT FOR THE UNIT
EXCUSE ME UNIT B AND THEN THE
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE PROPOSED
FIRST FLOOR LEVEL OF THAT
PROPOSED ADDITION WITH THE TWO
BEDROOMS KITCHEN AND LIVING
ROOM.
THE BATHROOM NEXT SLIDE SHOWS A
PROPOSED LEVEL TWO EXISTING AND
PROPOSED AND YOU SEE THE THE
WING ADDITIONS AND THE
ADDITIONAL TWO BEDROOMS TO BARS
THE SECOND FLOOR.
THESE ARE ROOF PLANS SHOWING
THE TWO PROPOSED ADDITIONS ON
YOUR LEFT.
THESE ARE THE PROPOSED
ELEVATIONS.
YOU SEE THE NEW WEST ELEVATION
WITH THAT PROPOSED ADDITION
BACK HERE AND THEN THIS SECOND
FLOOR WING JUST A LITTLE
DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVE FROM THE
NORTH AND THE EAST.
THE ADDITIONS THESE ARE THE
PHOTOS I TOOK AND MY INSPECTION
OF THE SITE YOU SEE THE FRONT
OF THE PROPERTY, YOU SEE THE
SIDE OF THE PROPERTY WHICH IS
THE WEST ELEVATION THIS IS
LOOKING AT THE REAR OF THE
PROPERTY, THE PARKING LOT AREA
AND WHERE THE PROPOSED
ADDITIONS WILL BE LOCATED.
THIS IS LOOKING DIRECTLY AT THE
REAR OF THE PROPERTY, THE NORTH
ELEVATION AND THAT CONCLUDES MY
PRESENTATION AT THIS TIME I'LL
TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT YOU MAY
HAVE CHRISTIE ON THE QUESTION
ANYBODY ELSE?
GRACE, I JUST HAVE A QUICK
QUESTION.
JOHN, COULD YOU GO BACK TO THE
SLIDE WITH THAT SHOWS LIKE HOW
FAR BACK IT'S GOING AT THIS
POINT?
YEAH.
YEP, RIGHT HERE IT'S SHOWING
IT'S GOING TO BE FORTY FEET AND
SOME CHANGE FROM THAT REAR AND
THE REQUIRED STEP BACK FOR THIS
DISTRICT SINCE IT'S OUR FORCES.
THIRTY FEET ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS?
SO THERE'S NO THERE'S NO
VARIANCE TO JUST REITERATE THAT
IT'S ALL AN ALTERATION JUST
BECAUSE IT'S IT MEETS SETBACKS
AND IT'S GOING ALONG THE SAME
PLANE AS THE EXISTING SIDE
THAT'S ON THE EAST SIDE.
SO IT'S NOT INCREASING THE
NONCONFORMITY RIGHT NOW.
IT'S YEAH, IT'S NOT GOING ANY
CLOSER TO NOT GETTING ANY MORE
NONCONFORMING GOREVAN IT'S OK
TO UH DO I DO HAVE A QUESTION
OF THE PETITIONER SOUTHY IS
THERE ARE YOU WAIT TILL YOU SEE
THE PRESENTATION PLEASE AND I
WILL SAY I THINK I DON'T KNOW
WHAT THE DATE IS.
CORRECT OFF THE TOP OF MY HEAD
THE APPLICANT AND CORRECT ME
JUST WENT TO THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION AND
RECEIVED APPROVAL ON
OCTOBER 12TH
.
OK THE APPLICANT COULD HAVE BE
BOTH OF US OR WANT TO IT GOING
TO BE BOTH YOU BOTH HAVE FIVE
MINUTES COMBINED YOU CAN SAY
WELL WHEN I SPEAK SURE RUBBER
IS OK STUDIO REPRESENTING THE
OWNER.
RIGHT.
DILEO WHO WANTED TO SPEAK FOR A
FEW MINUTES AS WELL.
THANKS AGAIN, JOHN FOR THE VERY
CLEAR EXPOSITION.
AGAIN, THIS IS AN ALTERATION TO
NONCONFORMING UNLIKE THE FIRST
CASE THIS IS AN ADDITION TO
THAT TO THAT EXISTING BUILDING.
ONE OF THE KEY THINGS TO POINT
OUT IS THAT THIS IS IN THE OLD
FOURTH WARD HISTORIC DISTRICT
ON THE 12TH WE DID RECEIVE
UNANIMOUS APPROVAL FOR IT.
WON'T YOU BE VERY PLEASED WITH
HOW WE WENT THROUGH GREAT
EXERCISES, GREAT LENGTHS TO
WORK WITH THE DC STAFF TO GET
TO THAT POINT OF APPROVAL?
SO YOU'LL SEE SOMETHING HERE
THAT'S BEEN VETTED HEAVILY
ALREADY FROM NOT ONLY
OF PLANNING BUT A DESIGN
PERSPECTIVE.
THE QUESTION WAS ASKED IS THIS
CREEP ANYMORE INTO ANY OF THE
EXISTING IT DOES NOT EXTEND ANY
FURTHER INTO THE WEST SIDE YARD
WHICH IS THE I DON'T KNOW WHICH
WAY THE WEST IS USUALLY I HAVE
TO DESCRIBE WE ACTUALLY DO SET
BACK THE BUILDING ON THE EAST
BY NINE INCHES AND THEN IT
COMES BACK A LITTLE BIT FURTHER
TO KIND OF CLOSE OUT THAT GAP.
THERE'S NO ADDITIONAL
INFORMANTS AND THERE IS NO
VARIANCE REQUIRED BECAUSE WE
DON'T EXTEND TO THE REAR GUARD
AT ALL FRONT YARDS NOT TOUCHED
THE WAS THERE'S ONE MORE POINT
I WANT TO BRING UP SPECIFIC TO
THAT.
EVEN THE ADDITION THAT
BUTTRESSES ON THE BACK OF THE
EXISTING SINGLE STORY ADDITION
IS THAT SIX INCHES FROM THE
EDGES AS WELL FROM THAT FROM
THE FROM THE SIDE.
SO WE'VE GONE TO GREAT LENGTHS
TO KIND OF MINIMIZE ANY IMPACT
THAT EXTENDS THIS BEYOND THE
EXISTING FOOTPRINT OF THE
HOUSE.
RIMI POINTED OUT.
BUT I'LL BE ALSO BRINGING IT
UP.
THERE'S BEEN A WONDERFUL
OUTPOURING OF SUPPORT FROM THE
LOCAL COMMUNITY AND INTERNAL TO
THE FOURTH WARD WHICH I THINK
IS VERY IMPORTANT TO POINT OUT
AS WELL.
I'M FULLY IN SUPPORT OF THIS
PROJECT AND WITH THAT I'LL
DEFER MY ADDITIONAL MINUTES AND
WAIT FOR QUESTIONS.
HI, THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
YOU MIGHT RECALL I WAS HERE IN
THE MARCH OF THIS YEAR'S
MEETING.
TIME FLIES WERE ALREADY IN THE
FALL SO THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME
AND THE OPPORTUNITY TO PRESENT
MY NAME'S RYAN PALAEO.
I LIVE TO A ONE ESAN STREET
JUST AS I DID IN MARCH WHICH IS
FIVE BUILDINGS AWAY FROM THIS
PROPERTY.
I AM A NEIGHBOR TO THIS
I'M A MEMBER OF THE OLD FOURTH
PROPERTY.
WARD HISTORIC DISTRICT AND I
I'M A MEMBER OF THE OLD FOURTH
REALLY CARE ABOUT THIS
WARD HISTORIC DISTRICT AND I
NEIGHBORHOOD IN THIS COMMUNITY.
REALLY CARE ABOUT THIS
I RECENTLY COMPLETED A PROJECT
NEIGHBORHOOD IN THIS COMMUNITY.
AT FIVE ONE ONE EAST AND STREET
I RECENTLY COMPLETED A PROJECT
BETWEEN MAY AND SEPTEMBER.
AT FIVE ONE ONE EAST AND STREET
SOME MIGHT CALL IT A MIRACLE I
BETWEEN MAY AND SEPTEMBER.
MAY HAVE LOST I DIDN'T LOSE ANY
SOME MIGHT CALL IT A MIRACLE I
HAIR FROM IT BUT I DID I DID
MAY HAVE LOST I DIDN'T LOSE ANY
LOSE A FEW YEARS OF MY LIFE.
HAIR FROM IT BUT I DID I DID
I MET THE OWNER OF THREE THIRTY
LOSE A FEW YEARS OF MY LIFE.
ONE SANDY STREET AND I'VE OWNED
I MET THE OWNER OF THREE THIRTY
IT FOR A FEW MONTHS NOW.
ONE SANDY STREET AND I'VE OWNED
IT'S BEEN DEEPLY MIS CARED FOR
IT FOR A FEW MONTHS NOW.
FOR THE LAST TEN YEARS THAT
IT'S BEEN DEEPLY MIS CARED FOR
MAINTENANCE OWNER THE
FOR THE LAST TEN YEARS THAT
MAINTENANCE MAN BEN SMITH USED
MAINTENANCE OWNER THE
TO LIVE IN THE UPSTAIRS
MAINTENANCE MAN BEN SMITH USED
APARTMENT.
TO LIVE IN THE UPSTAIRS
HE LIVED THERE FOR FORTY YEARS
APARTMENT.
.
HE LIVED THERE FOR FORTY YEARS
WE TALK SEVERAL TIMES A WEEK.
.
I CARE DEEPLY ABOUT DENSITY TO
WE TALK SEVERAL TIMES A WEEK.
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD BUT NOT
I CARE DEEPLY ABOUT DENSITY TO
MAXIMIZING YOU'LL NOTICE FROM
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD BUT NOT
THE ADDITION IT'S BARELY
MAXIMIZING YOU'LL NOTICE FROM
VISIBLE FROM THE STREET.
THE ADDITION IT'S BARELY
I CONSULTED A SIGNIFICANT
VISIBLE FROM THE STREET.
AMOUNT OF NEIGHBORS PART OF THE
I CONSULTED A SIGNIFICANT
HISTORIC BOARD OF DC TO MAKE
AMOUNT OF NEIGHBORS PART OF THE
SURE THAT THEY FELT COMFORTABLE
HISTORIC BOARD OF DC TO MAKE
WITH WHAT WAS BEING PUT FORWARD
SURE THAT THEY FELT COMFORTABLE
AND WE MADE SEVERAL
WITH WHAT WAS BEING PUT FORWARD
MODIFICATIONS.
AND WE MADE SEVERAL
PURTILL THATCHERS FEEDBACK SO I
MODIFICATIONS.
DON'T HAVE A TON MORE TO ADD.
PURTILL THATCHERS FEEDBACK SO I
I APPRECIATE THE OPPORTUNITY
DON'T HAVE A TON MORE TO ADD.
WE'RE ASKING FOR A TOTAL BACK
I APPRECIATE THE OPPORTUNITY
BEDROOM OF EIGHT WHICH I
WE'RE ASKING FOR A TOTAL BACK
REALIZE IS A SIGNIFICANT
BEDROOM OF EIGHT WHICH I
INCREASE FROM WHERE IT IS TODAY
REALIZE IS A SIGNIFICANT
BUT IT IS BELOW THE MAXIMUM
INCREASE FROM WHERE IT IS TODAY
ALLOWABLE DENSITY WHICH WOULD
BUT IT IS BELOW THE MAXIMUM
BE TWELVE AND I'M REALLY
ALLOWABLE DENSITY WHICH WOULD
EXCITED ABOUT THE POTENTIAL
BE TWELVE AND I'M REALLY
OF RESTORING THIS HOME AND
EXCITED ABOUT THE POTENTIAL
WALKING BY IT EVERY DAY.
OF RESTORING THIS HOME AND
SO THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
WALKING BY IT EVERY DAY.
APPRECIATE IT.
SO THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
ANY QUESTIONS DAVE?
APPRECIATE IT.
I JUST HAVE A SIMPLE QUESTION.
ANY QUESTIONS DAVE?
I NOTICED FROM THE PHOTOS THAT
I JUST HAVE A SIMPLE QUESTION.
REAR PARKING AREAS NOT IMPROVED
I NOTICED FROM THE PHOTOS THAT
AT ALL.
REAR PARKING AREAS NOT IMPROVED
ARE YOU REDUCING THE NUMBER
AT ALL.
OF SPACES BACK THERE?
ARE YOU REDUCING THE NUMBER
I ASSUME YOU ARE BECAUSE YOU'RE
OF SPACES BACK THERE?
EXTENDING DOWN TO FOUR SO
I ASSUME YOU ARE BECAUSE YOU'RE
YOU'RE GOING DOWN TO SPACES AND
EXTENDING DOWN TO FOUR SO
THEN WILL THAT BE PAVED PARKING
YOU'RE GOING DOWN TO SPACES AND
AREA?
THEN WILL THAT BE PAVED PARKING
I DON'T BELIEVE WE'VE IT'S
AREA?
ACTUALLY NOT A PARKING AREA.
I DON'T BELIEVE WE'VE IT'S
THANK YOU FOR DEFIANCE ON A
ACTUALLY NOT A PARKING AREA.
PARKING LOT.
THANK YOU FOR DEFIANCE ON A
SO I BELIEVE AT THIS ON THERE'S
PARKING LOT.
ANY SPECIFIC ELEMENTS FOR
SO I BELIEVE AT THIS ON THERE'S
IMPROVEMENT WE MAY DO THAT IN
ANY SPECIFIC ELEMENTS FOR
THE FUTURE.
IMPROVEMENT WE MAY DO THAT IN
I GET HAVE MORE YEAH.
THE FUTURE.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE GRAVEL THAT
I GET HAVE MORE YEAH.
WAS ACCEPTABLE.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE GRAVEL THAT
I KNOW THERE'S THIS ISSUE WITH
WAS ACCEPTABLE.
PERMEABLE WIRING COLORATION.
I KNOW THERE'S THIS ISSUE WITH
IF I WAS WORRIED THAT YOU WERE
PERMEABLE WIRING COLORATION.
PUTTING PAVEMENT BACK THERE AND
IF I WAS WORRIED THAT YOU WERE
WOULD REDUCE OUR USABILITY YOU
PUTTING PAVEMENT BACK THERE AND
HAVE OR INCREASE THE AMOUNT
WOULD REDUCE OUR USABILITY YOU
OF WATER RUNOFF.
HAVE OR INCREASE THE AMOUNT
SO THAT WAS MY QUESTION.
OF WATER RUNOFF.
THANK YOU.
SO THAT WAS MY QUESTION.
THE OTHER QUESTIONS OF THE
THANK YOU.
APPLICANT ANYBODY ELSE HERE IN
THE OTHER QUESTIONS OF THE
THE ROOM WOULD LIKE TO COMMENT
APPLICANT ANYBODY ELSE HERE IN
ON THIS PROJECT.
THE ROOM WOULD LIKE TO COMMENT
THANK THANK YOU GENTLEMEN THAT
ON THIS PROJECT.
YOU
ANY PUBLIC SCRUTINY?
THERE ARE NO CALLERS RIGHT IN
THAT CASE SO I NEED TO KNOW THE
LETTERS IN SUPPORT AND THERE
ARE A BUNCH THERE'S A CROCKET
EMAIL OF SUPPORT ME I'M
PROBABLY GOING TO MISPRONOUNCE
SOME OF THESE PEOPLE'S NAMES SO
I APOLOGIZE TO YOU DYLAN.
EMAIL US SUPPORT KENNEDY EMAIL
US SUPPORT ROSSANA EMAIL
OF OPPOSITION RETURN EMAIL
OF SUPPORT SMITH EMAIL US
SUPPORT WILSON EMAIL US SUPPORT
WINESBURG EMAIL US SUPPORT AND
WITH THAT THE PUBLIC PORTION
OF THE MEETING IS CLOSE AND
CANDICE'S WE'RE IN DISCUSSION
RIGHT NOW WITH CYRUS.
IS SOMEBODY GOING TO DO CHRIS
SET YOU UP FOR THE I DON'T HAVE
TO TELL YOU I CAN DO SO I HAVE
I COULD DO IT OK IT'S HERE.
I THINK DAVE'S GOT IT.
YEP.
ZEBA TWENTY THREE DASHI OR ZERO
TWO SEVEN THREE THIRTY ONE EAST
AND ST. ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS
RELIEF FROM SECTION FIVE POINT
THIRTY TWO POINT TO ALTERATION
TO A NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE
TO ALLOW CONSTRUCTION OF A SIX
HUNDRED THIRTY TWO SQUARE FOOT
ADDITION TO THE REAR OF THE
EXISTING TWO UNIT RENTAL
PROPERTY.
THE PROPOSED ADDITIONS AND
INTERIOR RENOVATIONS WILL
INCREASE THE NUMBER OF BEDROOMS
FROM TWO EIGHT.
THE UNIT COUNT REMAINS THE SAME
ALL NEW CONSTRUCTION IS TO BE
BUILT PER THE SUBMITTED PLANS
FOR OK GRACE YES CHRIS YES.
I ALSO VOTE YES DAVE GIVATI YES
SIDEROV YES DERMO YES IT IS
APPROVED SIX TO ZERO
.
THANK YOU.
YOU'VE BEEN APPROVED.
THE NEXT ITEM ON THE AGENDA IS
THANK YOU.
A TWENTY THREE DASH ONE ZERO
THE NEXT ITEM ON THE AGENDA IS
ZERO TWO SIX FIVE TWO SIX
A TWENTY THREE DASH ONE ZERO
DETROIT ST. JOHN TAKE IT AWAY
ZERO TWO SIX FIVE TWO SIX
ROB BURROWS REPRESENTING THE
DETROIT ST. JOHN TAKE IT AWAY
PROPERTY OWNER IS MAKING THREE
ROB BURROWS REPRESENTING THE
REQUESTS THE FIRST VARIANCES
PROPERTY OWNER IS MAKING THREE
OF TWO FEET ONE INCH AND TWO
REQUESTS THE FIRST VARIANCES
FEET 11 INCHES FROM SECTION
OF TWO FEET ONE INCH AND TWO
FIVE POINT SIXTEEN POINT SIX
FEET 11 INCHES FROM SECTION
SUBSECTION 2D ACCESSORY USES
FIVE POINT SIXTEEN POINT SIX
AND STRUCTURES.
SUBSECTION 2D ACCESSORY USES
THESE VARIANCES ARE REQUIRED
AND STRUCTURES.
FROM FOR THE EAST AND SOUTH
THESE VARIANCES ARE REQUIRED
SIDE OF AN EXISTING DETACHED
FROM FOR THE EAST AND SOUTH
GARAGE TO ALLOW TO BE CONVERTED
SIDE OF AN EXISTING DETACHED
TO AN ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT.
GARAGE TO ALLOW TO BE CONVERTED
THE SECOND THE PROPOSED
TO AN ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT.
ADDITION TO THE REAR OF THE
THE SECOND THE PROPOSED
HOME WILL REQUIRE APPROVAL FROM
ADDITION TO THE REAR OF THE
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
HOME WILL REQUIRE APPROVAL FROM
POINT TWO ALTERATION TO A NON
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
CONFORMING STRUCTURE TO ALLOW
POINT TWO ALTERATION TO A NON
THE ADDITIONS TO BE THREE POINT
CONFORMING STRUCTURE TO ALLOW
EIGHT TWO FEET FROM THE SIDE
THE ADDITIONS TO BE THREE POINT
FLAT LINE.
EIGHT TWO FEET FROM THE SIDE
IT WILL NOT ENCROACH FURTHER
FLAT LINE.
INTO THE SIDES YARD STEP BACK
IT WILL NOT ENCROACH FURTHER
THAN THE EXISTING RESIDENCE AND
INTO THE SIDES YARD STEP BACK
THE THIRD IS THE ADDITION ALSO
THAN THE EXISTING RESIDENCE AND
REQUIRES A ONE FOOT EIGHT INCH
THE THIRD IS THE ADDITION ALSO
VARIANCE FROM TABLE FIVE POINT
REQUIRES A ONE FOOT EIGHT INCH
SEVENTEEN DASH THREE MULTIPLE
VARIANCE FROM TABLE FIVE POINT
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONING
SEVENTEEN DASH THREE MULTIPLE
DISTRICT DIMENSIONS TO ENCROACH
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONING
INTO THE REQUIRED 30 FOOT REAR
DISTRICT DIMENSIONS TO ENCROACH
YARD SET BACK THE SUBJECT
INTO THE REQUIRED 30 FOOT REAR
PROPERTY ZONED OUR FOR MULTIPLE
YARD SET BACK THE SUBJECT
FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT AND AS
PROPERTY ZONED OUR FOR MULTIPLE
IN THE OLD FOURTH WARD HISTORIC
FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT AND AS
DISTRICT, THIS PROJECT LIKE THE
IN THE OLD FOURTH WARD HISTORIC
PREVIOUS ONE WENT TO THE
DISTRICT, THIS PROJECT LIKE THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
PREVIOUS ONE WENT TO THE
AND RECEIVED APPROVAL ON
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
OCTOBER 12TH AT THAT MEETING OR
AND RECEIVED APPROVAL ON
PRIOR TO THAT GOING TO THE
OCTOBER 12TH AT THAT MEETING OR
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION.
PRIOR TO THAT GOING TO THE
THERE WAS ONE OTHER VARIANCE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION.
REQUEST FOR THIS APPLICATION
THERE WAS ONE OTHER VARIANCE
THE ORIGINAL EDITION WAS GOING
REQUEST FOR THIS APPLICATION
TO ENCROACH INSTEAD OF ONE FEET
THE ORIGINAL EDITION WAS GOING
EIGHT INCHES TO THE REAR STEP
TO ENCROACH INSTEAD OF ONE FEET
BACK AS IT IS NOW IT'S GOING TO
EIGHT INCHES TO THE REAR STEP
BE FIVE FEET SIX INCHES OR FIVE
BACK AS IT IS NOW IT'S GOING TO
FEET AND SOME CHANGE THE
BE FIVE FEET SIX INCHES OR FIVE
MEETINGS WITH DC REQUESTED THAT
FEET AND SOME CHANGE THE
ADDITION BE REDUCED AT THE TIME
MEETINGS WITH DC REQUESTED THAT
WHEN IT WAS GOING TO BE FIVE
ADDITION BE REDUCED AT THE TIME
AND A HALF FEET INTO THE REAR
WHEN IT WAS GOING TO BE FIVE
SET BACK THAT ADDITION ALONG
AND A HALF FEET INTO THE REAR
WITH THE GARAGE WAS GOING TO
SET BACK THAT ADDITION ALONG
EXCEED THE THIRTY FIVE PERCENT
WITH THE GARAGE WAS GOING TO
ALLOWABLE REAR YARD SETBACK
EXCEED THE THIRTY FIVE PERCENT
AREA THAT WE'VE TALKED.
ALLOWABLE REAR YARD SETBACK
WE'VE HAD THOSE BEFORE WHICH
AREA THAT WE'VE TALKED.
WAS THAT THIRTY SEVEN PERCENT
WE'VE HAD THOSE BEFORE WHICH
SINCE THAT MEETING AND THE
WAS THAT THIRTY SEVEN PERCENT
HISTORIC DISTRICTS DECISION
SINCE THAT MEETING AND THE
THAT EDITION WAS REDUCED DOWN
HISTORIC DISTRICTS DECISION
TO ONE FEET EIGHT INCHES
THAT EDITION WAS REDUCED DOWN
THEREFORE TAKING THE TOTAL AREA
TO ONE FEET EIGHT INCHES
INTO THE REAR SET BACK DOWN TO
THEREFORE TAKING THE TOTAL AREA
THIRTY FOUR PERCENT.
INTO THE REAR SET BACK DOWN TO
SO THAT REQUEST WAS REMOVED.
THIRTY FOUR PERCENT.
SO HOPEFULLY I MADE THAT CLEAR
SO THAT REQUEST WAS REMOVED.
ENOUGH AND I'LL ALSO DO THAT ON
SO HOPEFULLY I MADE THAT CLEAR
THE SITE AS WE GO ALONG.
ENOUGH AND I'LL ALSO DO THAT ON
THE PROPERTY IS LOCATED THE
THE SITE AS WE GO ALONG.
NORTH EAST SIDE OF DETROIT
THE PROPERTY IS LOCATED THE
STREET NORTH OF EAST KINGSLEE
NORTH EAST SIDE OF DETROIT
AND THE SOUTH WEST OF NORTH
STREET NORTH OF EAST KINGSLEE
DIVISION STREETS.
AND THE SOUTH WEST OF NORTH
IT IS ACROSS THE STREET FROM
DIVISION STREETS.
THE FORMER TREASURER MARK.
IT IS ACROSS THE STREET FROM
THE HOME WAS BUILT IN 1991 AND
THE FORMER TREASURER MARK.
IS APPROXIMATE EIGHT HUNDRED
THE HOME WAS BUILT IN 1991 AND
AND SIXTY FOUR SQUARE FEET IN
IS APPROXIMATE EIGHT HUNDRED
SIZE.
AND SIXTY FOUR SQUARE FEET IN
THE APPLICANTS ARE PROPOSING A
SIZE.
ONE STOREY ADDITION TO THE REAR
THE APPLICANTS ARE PROPOSING A
OF THE EXISTING HOME.
ONE STOREY ADDITION TO THE REAR
THE ADDITIONAL WILL CONTAIN A
OF THE EXISTING HOME.
ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY TWO
THE ADDITIONAL WILL CONTAIN A
SQUARE FOOT BEDROOM.
ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY TWO
THE DETACHED GARAGE IS TO BE
SQUARE FOOT BEDROOM.
CONVERTED INTO AN ACCESSORY
THE DETACHED GARAGE IS TO BE
DWELLING UNIT THAT DOES NOT
CONVERTED INTO AN ACCESSORY
MEET THE REQUIRED THREE FOOT
DWELLING UNIT THAT DOES NOT
SETBACKS FROM THE SIDE AND REAR
MEET THE REQUIRED THREE FOOT
PLOT LINES.
SETBACKS FROM THE SIDE AND REAR
THE AIDO WILL BE TWO STORIES
PLOT LINES.
WITH THE FIRST FLOOR HAVING A
THE AIDO WILL BE TWO STORIES
LIVING ROOM, KITCHEN AND
WITH THE FIRST FLOOR HAVING A
BATHROOM.
LIVING ROOM, KITCHEN AND
THE SECOND STORY WILL BE A LOFT
BATHROOM.
STYLE BEDROOM IF YOU'LL TURN
THE SECOND STORY WILL BE A LOFT
YOUR ATTENTION TO THE MONITORS
STYLE BEDROOM IF YOU'LL TURN
YOU SEE THE FIRST SLIDE IS THE
YOUR ATTENTION TO THE MONITORS
LOCATION MAP IS ONLY SHOWING
YOU SEE THE FIRST SLIDE IS THE
THE HIGHLIGHTED CASTLE IN THE
LOCATION MAP IS ONLY SHOWING
CENTER OF YOUR SLIDE SCREEN.
THE HIGHLIGHTED CASTLE IN THE
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE AREA
CENTER OF YOUR SLIDE SCREEN.
AERIAL PHOTOS SHOWING
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE AREA
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES AND
AERIAL PHOTOS SHOWING
NEIGHBORING NEIGHBORING
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES AND
EXISTING CONDITIONS AND THE
NEIGHBORING NEIGHBORING
NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
EXISTING CONDITIONS AND THE
AERIAL PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
PROPERTY.
AERIAL PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
PROPERTY.
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
APPLICATION YOU CAN SEE THE
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
PROXIMITY OF THE GARAGE TO THE
APPLICATION YOU CAN SEE THE
SOUTH LINE AND THE EAST LINE
PROXIMITY OF THE GARAGE TO THE
AND THAT IS WHERE THESE VARIOUS
SOUTH LINE AND THE EAST LINE
REQUESTS FOR THE DATA YOU ARE
AND THAT IS WHERE THESE VARIOUS
BEING REQUESTED AND YOU SEE THE
REQUESTS FOR THE DATA YOU ARE
CURRENT HOME IS THREE POINT
BEING REQUESTED AND YOU SEE THE
EIGHTY TWO FEET FROM THAT SIDE
CURRENT HOME IS THREE POINT
SETBACK.
EIGHTY TWO FEET FROM THAT SIDE
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE
SETBACK.
PROPOSED ADDITIONS IN THE
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE
HIGHLIGHTED BOX HERE WHERE MY
PROPOSED ADDITIONS IN THE
CURSOR IS AND YOU CAN SEE THAT
HIGHLIGHTED BOX HERE WHERE MY
IT'S ONLY PROJECTING ONE FEET
CURSOR IS AND YOU CAN SEE THAT
EIGHT INCHES PREVIOUSLY WAS
IT'S ONLY PROJECTING ONE FEET
PROJECTED TO GO FIVE AND A HALF
EIGHT INCHES PREVIOUSLY WAS
FEET UNDER HERE.
PROJECTED TO GO FIVE AND A HALF
SO WHEN THAT ADDITION WAS GOING
FEET UNDER HERE.
TO BE FIVE AND A HALF FEET
SO WHEN THAT ADDITION WAS GOING
ALONG WITH THE GARAGE IT WAS
TO BE FIVE AND A HALF FEET
GOING TO EXCEED THE THIRTY FIVE
ALONG WITH THE GARAGE IT WAS
PERCENT ROAD BUT IT DOES NOT
GOING TO EXCEED THE THIRTY FIVE
NOW.
PERCENT ROAD BUT IT DOES NOT
SO THAT'S NOT THAT'S WHY IT'S
NOW.
NOT PART OF THIS REQUEST AND
SO THAT'S NOT THAT'S WHY IT'S
THEN YOU SEE THE PROPOSED
NOT PART OF THIS REQUEST AND
ADDITIONS AND ITS DISTANCE TO
THEN YOU SEE THE PROPOSED
THE SIDE A LOT LINE REMAINS THE
ADDITIONS AND ITS DISTANCE TO
SAME AS THE HOME AT THREE POINT
THE SIDE A LOT LINE REMAINS THE
EIGHT TWO FEET DOES NOT
SAME AS THE HOME AT THREE POINT
ENCROACH ANY FURTHER BUT STILL
EIGHT TWO FEET DOES NOT
REQUIRES THAT ALTERATION TO A
ENCROACH ANY FURTHER BUT STILL
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE.
REQUIRES THAT ALTERATION TO A
AND THEN IN THE CORNER YOU SEE
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE.
THE PROPOSED ELEVATIONS OF THE
AND THEN IN THE CORNER YOU SEE
EIGHTY YOU IN THE BACK.
THE PROPOSED ELEVATIONS OF THE
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SAME
EIGHTY YOU IN THE BACK.
PHOTOS, SOME ELEVATION DRAWINGS
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SAME
THAT WERE SUBMITTED WITH THE
PHOTOS, SOME ELEVATION DRAWINGS
APPLICATION.
THAT WERE SUBMITTED WITH THE
YOU SEE THE ADDITIONS RIGHT
APPLICATION.
HERE COMING OFF THE BACK OF THE
YOU SEE THE ADDITIONS RIGHT
PRINCIPAL HOME AND THEN THE
HERE COMING OFF THE BACK OF THE
EIGHTY YOU RIGHT HERE.
PRINCIPAL HOME AND THEN THE
THIS IS FROM THE REAR YARD.
EIGHTY YOU RIGHT HERE.
YOU SEE THIS TAKEN FROM DETROIT
THIS IS FROM THE REAR YARD.
STREET AND YOU KIND OF SEE THE
YOU SEE THIS TAKEN FROM DETROIT
ADDITIONS TO THE BACK AND THEN
STREET AND YOU KIND OF SEE THE
THE OTHER SIDE OF DETROIT
ADDITIONS TO THE BACK AND THEN
STREET YOU SEE EIGHTY YOU AND
THE OTHER SIDE OF DETROIT
JUST AS YOU CAN SEE THEM ABOVE
STREET YOU SEE EIGHTY YOU AND
THE SCREEN AND THE PHOTOS, THE
JUST AS YOU CAN SEE THEM ABOVE
COMPARISON AND CONTRAST IF YOU
THE SCREEN AND THE PHOTOS, THE
WILL NEED THAT SLIDE IS THE NEW
COMPARISON AND CONTRAST IF YOU
BASEMENT AND THE EXISTING
WILL NEED THAT SLIDE IS THE NEW
BASEMENT OF THE EDITION AND THE
BASEMENT AND THE EXISTING
BACK AND THEN THE NEXT SLIDE
BASEMENT OF THE EDITION AND THE
SHOWS THE FIRST FLOOR OF THE
BACK AND THEN THE NEXT SLIDE
PROPOSED EIGHTY TWO GARAGE AND
SHOWS THE FIRST FLOOR OF THE
THEN THE ADDITION WITH THE
PROPOSED EIGHTY TWO GARAGE AND
BEDROOM AND A BATHROOM.
THEN THE ADDITION WITH THE
THE NEXT SLIDES ARE NEW LEVEL
BEDROOM AND A BATHROOM.
TWO ADDITIONS AND DEMO PLANS
THE NEXT SLIDES ARE NEW LEVEL
AND THEN THE NEXT SLIDE SHOW
TWO ADDITIONS AND DEMO PLANS
DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVES AND
AND THEN THE NEXT SLIDE SHOW
ELEVATIONS OF THE PROPOSED
DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVES AND
CONSTRUCTION.
ELEVATIONS OF THE PROPOSED
THIS IS THE WEST ELEVATION
CONSTRUCTION.
EXISTING IS ON THE BOTTOM.
THIS IS THE WEST ELEVATION
THE PROPOSED IS UP TOP.
EXISTING IS ON THE BOTTOM.
YOU SEE EDITION AS IT RELATES
THE PROPOSED IS UP TOP.
TO THE YOU IN THE BACKGROUND.
YOU SEE EDITION AS IT RELATES
THIS IS THE EAST ELEVATION AND
TO THE YOU IN THE BACKGROUND.
YOU SEE THE EIGHTY YOU EXCUSE
THIS IS THE EAST ELEVATION AND
ME.
YOU SEE THE EIGHTY YOU EXCUSE
OKAY.
ME.
YOU KNOW THAT'S THE ADDITION
OKAY.
OF THE AND THEN THESE ARE THE
YOU KNOW THAT'S THE ADDITION
80 YEAR DRAWINGS EXISTING AND
OF THE AND THEN THESE ARE THE
PROPOSED AT THE BOTTOM MORE
80 YEAR DRAWINGS EXISTING AND
ELEVATION PROPOSALS.
PROPOSED AT THE BOTTOM MORE
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT I
ELEVATION PROPOSALS.
TOOK WHEN I VISITED THE SITE
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT I
EXCUSE ME YOU SEE THE FRONT
TOOK WHEN I VISITED THE SITE
OF THE HOUSE THE SOUTH SIDE
EXCUSE ME YOU SEE THE FRONT
OF THE PROPERTY ALONG WITH THE
OF THE HOUSE THE SOUTH SIDE
EXISTING GARAGE IN THE BACK IN
OF THE PROPERTY ALONG WITH THE
WHICH CAN BE CONVERTED TO THE
EXISTING GARAGE IN THE BACK IN
VIEW LOOKING DOWN THE DRIVEWAY
WHICH CAN BE CONVERTED TO THE
AT THE GARAGE.
VIEW LOOKING DOWN THE DRIVEWAY
THIS IS THE GARAGE AND ITS
AT THE GARAGE.
RELATIONSHIP TO THE PROPERTY
THIS IS THE GARAGE AND ITS
LINES.
RELATIONSHIP TO THE PROPERTY
LIKE I SAID, IT'S GOING TO
LINES.
REQUIRE A TWO FEET ELEVEN INCH
LIKE I SAID, IT'S GOING TO
VARIANCE ON THE EAST SIDE AND
REQUIRE A TWO FEET ELEVEN INCH
THIS IS THE SOUTH SIDE WAS
VARIANCE ON THE EAST SIDE AND
GOING TO REQUIRE A TWO FOOT ONE
THIS IS THE SOUTH SIDE WAS
INCH VARIANCE.
GOING TO REQUIRE A TWO FOOT ONE
SO IT'S IT'S 11 INCHES OFF THE
INCH VARIANCE.
SOUTH LINE.
SO IT'S IT'S 11 INCHES OFF THE
THIS IS LOOKING AT THE OTHER
SOUTH LINE.
SIDE OF THE GARAGE 82 AND THE
THIS IS LOOKING AT THE OTHER
INTERIOR OF THE LOT.
SIDE OF THE GARAGE 82 AND THE
THIS IS LOOKING DIRECTLY AT THE
INTERIOR OF THE LOT.
REAR FACADE OF THE HOME AND
THIS IS LOOKING DIRECTLY AT THE
EXISTING THIS IS WHERE THE
REAR FACADE OF THE HOME AND
ADDITION IS GOING TO COME OFF
EXISTING THIS IS WHERE THE
THE BACK WHERE THE PICNIC TABLE
ADDITION IS GOING TO COME OFF
IS AND THIS IS LOOKING DOWN THE
THE BACK WHERE THE PICNIC TABLE
NORTH SIDE OF THE PROPERTY IN
IS AND THIS IS LOOKING DOWN THE
RELATIONSHIP TO THE NEIGHBOR
NORTH SIDE OF THE PROPERTY IN
AND I'M STANDING ON DETROIT
RELATIONSHIP TO THE NEIGHBOR
STREET LOOKING STRAIGHT DOWN
AND I'M STANDING ON DETROIT
THE PROPERTY AND THEN THAT
STREET LOOKING STRAIGHT DOWN
ADDITION IS GOING TO COME
THE PROPERTY AND THEN THAT
STRAIGHT OFF THAT BACK AND
ADDITION IS GOING TO COME
WON'T ENCROACH ANY FURTHER INTO
STRAIGHT OFF THAT BACK AND
THIS AREA.
WON'T ENCROACH ANY FURTHER INTO
THAT CONCLUDES MY PRESENTATION.
THIS AREA.
I'LL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT
THAT CONCLUDES MY PRESENTATION.
YOU HAVE AT THIS CHRIS.
I'LL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT
IT'S REALLY JUST FOR
YOU HAVE AT THIS CHRIS.
INFORMATION WHEN THEY INITIALLY
IT'S REALLY JUST FOR
PROPOSED THE FIVE AND A HALF
INFORMATION WHEN THEY INITIALLY
FEET IN THE BACK IT REDUCED IT
PROPOSED THE FIVE AND A HALF
NEGATING THE NEED.
FEET IN THE BACK IT REDUCED IT
WE NOTICED THAT FOR THE
NEGATING THE NEED.
ORIGINAL REQUEST.
WE NOTICED THAT FOR THE
YES, AND SO IT'S NOW THAT IT'S
ORIGINAL REQUEST.
PROPOSED AS A CONFORMING AND
YES, AND SO IT'S NOW THAT IT'S
CONFORMING.
PROPOSED AS A CONFORMING AND
YES.
CONFORMING.
IF
IF IT WOULD HAVE INCREASED
WE PROBABLY WOULD HAVE HAD TO
RE ADVERTISE AT RE JERKERS
POSTPONEMENTS.
BUT SINCE IT'S IT'S LESS THAN
THE REQUEST.
YEAH YEAH.
THEY REDUCED THE REQUEST AND SO
FORTH SO I THINK YOU IT WILL BE
A GOOD ANY OTHER QUESTIONS
JOHN.
ALL RIGHT.
YES I HOPE IT'S NOT PART OF THE
CURRENT PLAN BUT IF THEY WERE
TO PUT A FRONT PORCH AND NICE
FRONT PORCH YOU COULD SIT ON
AND PUT EYES ON THE STREET FROM
THE RESIDENTS HERE.
WOULD THEY NEED ANY FURTHER
APPLICATION OR IS THAT
SOMETHING THEY COULD JUST DO
WITH A BUILDING PERMIT WITH THE
CITY WITH OUR CURRENT PORCH
REGULATIONS?
THAT LAST PICTURE YOU HAD UP
THERE, YOU SHOWED THE EXISTING
PORCH.
RIGHT.
AND I'M JUST LOOKING AND I WAS
JUST THINKING IF THEY EXTENDED
IT ALL THE WAY ACROSS AND HAD A
LITTLE PORCH THERE YOU COULD
SIT ON.
SO BASED ON WHAT I'M SEEING ON
THE AERIAL PHOTOS AND THE
AVERAGE FRONT SETBACKS ALMOST
ALL THESE HOMES ARE EXACTLY ON
THE SAME BUILDING PLANE.
SO I WOULD SAY COULD JUST REAL
BRIEFLY WITHOUT DOING ANY
MEASUREMENTS, IT APPEARS THAT
IT'S A POSSIBILITY.
BUT AS WITH ANY NEW
CONSTRUCTION OR ANY DEVIATION
FROM THE PLAN, IT WOULD ALSO IT
WOULD HAVE TO GO TO THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
FIRST AND THEN TO THE ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS BEFORE
ANYTHING COULD BE DONE.
THANK YOU ALL RIGHT.
THE APPLICANT HAVE WE SEEN YOU
BEFORE YOU LOOK FAMILIAR.
I INTRODUCED MYSELF ROB ROSETO
STUDIO IF I MAY FOLLOW UP ON
THAT POINT BRIEFLY.
THERE'S THE HOUSE TO THE
IMMEDIATE NORTH IS LITERALLY
THE KISSING SISTER OF IT.
THEY HAVE A WEIRD APPENDAGE
EDITION IN THE BACK BUT THE
PORCH IS IDENTICAL.
I HAVE CRAZY HUNCH THAT WE
FRONT PORCH IS IN OUR OFFICE
TOO.
I LOVE THEM PERSONALLY.
I HAVE A CRAZY HUNCH THAT
BECAUSE IT MATCHES SO CLOSELY
THE OTHER IS THAT YOU PROBABLY
WOULD NOT LOOK FONDLY UPON ME
TO APPROACH IT ON THAT TOPIC.
SO I JUST WANT TO BRING THAT UP
SO AGAIN, JOHN, THANK YOU ONCE
AGAIN.
THIRD TIME FOR GREATEST
POSITION.
I DON'T HAVE A LOT MORE TO ADD.
THERE'S A LITTLE BIT MORE
UNIQUE.
I'M SURE YOU FOLKS HAVE CRAZIER
PLOT LINES AND THIS IS ONE
OF THE MOST BIZARRE ONES I
HONESTLY HAVE TO ADMIT I
LEARNED SOMETHING FROM JOHN IN
PARTICULAR ON THIS THAT HOW YOU
ACTUALLY CALCULATE A REAR GUARD
WHEN YOU'VE GOT THIS CRAZY LEG
JULLIAN OFF ONE SIDE.
SO NOW I KNOW HOW TO DO THAT.
I'LL BE ABLE TO DRESS A LITTLE
BIT FASTER IN THE FUTURE.
BUT AGAIN THIS THIS IS A
RELATIVELY SIMPLE BENIGN
ADDITION AND MAYBE RELATIVELY
UNIQUE IN FRONT OF YOU GUYS
WITH THE YOU ARE MADE TO USE AN
EXISTING NONCONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE FOR THE U.S. TO
CINDERBLOCK GARAGE.
THEY DON'T LIKE IT AT ALL.
THEY LOVE THE IDEA.
THEY IN FACT ENCOURAGE US TO DO
IT THE CLADDING, THE
MATERIALITY AND EVERYTHING IS
BASED UPON HGC FEEDBACK SO AND
THEIR MIND IS A WONDERFUL
DAFTER FOR USE OF A NONDESCRIPT
YEAH BUT I BACKGROUND STRUCTURE
AND IT ALSO GIVES THE
NEIGHBORHOOD THEIR MIND TO
WHICH MAYBE SPEAKING MORE TO
YOU GUYS IN THIS CASE GIVES YOU
ANOTHER OPPORTUNITY FOR A
DWELLING UNIT AS A AS A
COMMUNITY OVERALL WHICH I THINK
IS A TREMENDOUS ASSET CAN
PROFESSIONALLY AND PERSONALLY
BEYOND THAT THERE'S JUST
REITERATE SOME OF JOHN'S
TALKING POINTS.
THE ADDITION IS RELATIVELY
MINOR.
THE HEAD CLEARANCE IS GETTING
UP TO THAT SECOND FLOOR.
IT'S BASICALLY TO DORMERS
CREATE THE OCCUPIABLE SPACE ON
THE SECOND FLOOR.
YOU'LL NOTICE IN THE BACK SIDE
THERE'S A VERY MODEST AMOUNT
OF EMBEDDED DORMERS.
I MEAN JUST AN EXTENSION OF THE
TWO THAT ARE ON ONE EITHER SIDE
BASICALLY TO GET HEADROOM TO
GET A STAIR UP THERE RIGHT NOW
IT'S ALMOST A SHIP'S LADDER.
SO ALL THIS IS BASICALLY
UPDATING THE KIND OF THE REALLY
CHALLENGING INTERIOR
ENVIRONMENT OF AN OLD HOUSE
WE'RE REALLY NOT PROPOSING MUCH
IN TERMS OF MAXIMUM AGAIN NOT
MAXIMUM DENSITY.
WE'RE TAKING WHAT WAS MULTIPLE
BEDROOMS I THREE OR ORIGINALLY
.
YEAH, WE'RE JUST ADDING THIS
ADDITIONAL WITH NOW MUCH MORE
PLEASANT HABITABLE SPACE
INTERNALLY PLUS THE EIGHT TO
YOU.
SO WITH RYAN IF YOU HAVE ANY
OTHER THOUGHTS OTHERWISE YOU'LL
QUICKLY YOU KNOW I'M LIMITED AT
THE TIME.
THANK YOU AGAIN RYAN PANTALEO
JUST A FEW POINTS.
THE GARAGE AS IT EXISTS TODAY
HAS BEEN USED FOR STORAGE FOR
THE LAST TEN YEARS.
IT'S OFFSET FROM THE DRIVEWAY
SO YOUR ABILITY TO PARK A
NORMAL SIZED CAR IS ALMOST
IMPOSSIBLE AND THE SECOND PIECE
IS I WAS REALLY INSPIRED TO
CONSTRUCT MY FIRST AIDOO.
THERE WAS EVENT IT WASN'T HELD
BY THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
IT WAS CALLED HOUSE PARTY AND
IT WAS RAISING AWARENESS FOR
THE HOUSING CRISIS IN ANN
ARBOR.
I GOT TO MEET EDU OWNERS AS
WELL AS TENANTS.
I WAS REALLY INSPIRED BY THAT
MEETING, JUST REALLY IMPRESSED
EXCITED FOR THE POTENTIAL
OPPORTUNITY TO DO THAT IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD IN WHICH I LIVE
HAD I NOT BEEN ENGAGED AND THIS
WAS TEN YEARS AGO THIS I'M
THOUGHTFULLY DESIGNING A PLACE
THAT I WOULD LOVE TO LIVE IN
TEN YEARS AGO PROBABLY NOT
IDEAL FOR TWO PEOPLE BUT THE
STUDIO I THINK WILL BE A
REALLY, REALLY UNIQUE SPACE IN
THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND I'M
HOPEFUL IT CAN PAY THE PATH FOR
OTHER PROPERTY OWNERS TO REDUCE
THEIR COST OF LIVING AS WELL AS
INCREASE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
LIVE IN A HISTORIC
NEIGHBORHOOD.
SO THANK YOU SO MUCH.
I REALLY APPRECIATE IT AND
HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS.
ONE FINAL THOUGHT AND JUST
LINKED TO THE PROJECT SHOULD
SHE'D BE SPEAKING TO MIKE?
THERE'S A THERE'S ADDITIONAL
LETTERS THAT HAVE ARRIVED THAT
SHOULD BE IN YOUR PACKET IN
SUPPORT OF THE PROJECT AS WELL
.
SO THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THESE
GENTLEMEN PLEASE?
I'M STRUCK BY THE WAY THE
EXISTING CINDER BLOCK GARAGE
SITS THERE.
HOW DO YOU GET AROUND TO THAT
LITTLE PIECE OF DOGLEG YARD?
IS THERE LIKE A LACK OF FENCING
NEIGHBORS OR LIKE HOW HOW CAN
YOU USE THAT LITTLE SPACE?
IT'S TRULY GOING TO BE
ACCESSIBLE THROUGH THE ADA.
YOU KNOW, I FEEL LIKE A LITTLE
BIT IT'S GOING TO BE THERE.
IT'S ACTUALLY RATHER UNIQUE TO
THEIR OWN LITTLE PRIVATE
BACKYARD AND THIS WILL BE
FENCED BY SO THAT WE AGAIN WITH
THE CRAZINESS OF HOW IT IS
CARVED UP HISTORICALLY IT HAS
SOME REALLY WE CALL IT SIMPLY
ENOUGH UNIQUE ADAPTATIONS THE
BACKYARDS.
SO THIS WILL BE THEIR OWN
UNIQUE WALK COUNT YARD
FUNCTIONALLY WHICH IS A REALLY
KIND OF A NICE OPPORTUNITY FOR
THAT SPECIFIC DENHA TYPE.
RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
OF COURSE.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
RIGHT.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS.
ANYBODY IN THE ROOM THAT WOULD
RIGHT.
LIKE TO SPEAK?
ANYBODY IN THE ROOM THAT WOULD
THANK YOU.
LIKE TO SPEAK?
ANY PUBLIC SCRUTINY?
THANK YOU.
THERE ARE NO CALLERS ALL THERE
ANY PUBLIC SCRUTINY?
ARE LETTERS OF SUPPORT FROM THE
THERE ARE NO CALLERS ALL THERE
LOOKS LIKE THE SAME PEOPLE WHO
ARE LETTERS OF SUPPORT FROM THE
SUPPORTED THE EARLIER ONE.
LOOKS LIKE THE SAME PEOPLE WHO
I'LL READ THROUGH THEM A
SUPPORTED THE EARLIER ONE.
CROCKET EMAIL OF SUPPORT AND
I'LL READ THROUGH THEM A
ELLYSON EMAIL OF OPPOSITION
CROCKET EMAIL OF SUPPORT AND
HEWLIN EMAIL OF SUPPORT KENNEDY
ELLYSON EMAIL OF OPPOSITION
EMAIL SUPPORT LEWIS EMAIL US
HEWLIN EMAIL OF SUPPORT KENNEDY
SUPPORT REHDER EMAIL US SUPPORT
EMAIL SUPPORT LEWIS EMAIL US
WILSON EMAIL US SUPPORT
SUPPORT REHDER EMAIL US SUPPORT
WEINBERG EMAIL YOUR SUPPORT.
WILSON EMAIL US SUPPORT
I THINK I'VE GOTTEN THEM ALL
WEINBERG EMAIL YOUR SUPPORT.
AND WITH THAT THE PUBLIC
I THINK I'VE GOTTEN THEM ALL
PORTION OF THE MEETING IS
AND WITH THAT THE PUBLIC
CLOSE.
PORTION OF THE MEETING IS
WE'RE IN DISCUSSION OK.
CLOSE.
OH I THINK YEP OF COURSE THE
WE'RE IN DISCUSSION OK.
OPERATION WE'RE NOT THE PARTY
OH I THINK YEP OF COURSE THE
STRUCTURE IS PRETTY EASY.
OPERATION WE'RE NOT THE PARTY
THE VARIANCE IS REQUEST AND I
STRUCTURE IS PRETTY EASY.
DO SAY THAT WE HAVE MORE
THE VARIANCE IS REQUEST AND I
STRINGENT STANDARDS THAT WE DO
DO SAY THAT WE HAVE MORE
APPLY.
STRINGENT STANDARDS THAT WE DO
WHAT WE HAVE HERE IS FOR WANT
APPLY.
TO SAY IS ABLE TO TURN YOUR
WHAT WE HAVE HERE IS FOR WANT
MIKE ON PLEASE.
TO SAY IS ABLE TO TURN YOUR
SORRY SORRY ABOUT THAT.
MIKE ON PLEASE.
SO JUST TO THE VARIANCE
SORRY SORRY ABOUT THAT.
REQUIRES A MORE RIGOROUS TESTS
SO JUST TO THE VARIANCE
AND METRICS THAT WE HAVE TO
REQUIRES A MORE RIGOROUS TESTS
LOOK TO TO IMPROVE AND I JUST
AND METRICS THAT WE HAVE TO
WANT TO GO DOWN A COUPLE
LOOK TO TO IMPROVE AND I JUST
OF THESE WHERE I THINK YOU HAD
WANT TO GO DOWN A COUPLE
CHECKS THE BOXES ONE THERE IS A
OF THESE WHERE I THINK YOU HAD
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY EXCEPTION
CHECKS THE BOXES ONE THERE IS A
TO THIS PARTICULAR PROPERTY AND
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY EXCEPTION
I POINT OUT THE SHAPE OF THE
TO THIS PARTICULAR PROPERTY AND
LOT AND THE WAY THAT THE
I POINT OUT THE SHAPE OF THE
EXISTING STRUCTURE SITS ON THE
LOT AND THE WAY THAT THE
LOT AND YOU'RE NOT CHANGING
EXISTING STRUCTURE SITS ON THE
THAT STRUCTURE BUT YOU'RE WITH
LOT AND YOU'RE NOT CHANGING
THESE VARIANCES.
THAT STRUCTURE BUT YOU'RE WITH
WE'RE ACKNOWLEDGING THAT AND
THESE VARIANCES.
THE SHAPE THE UNUSUAL SHAPE
WE'RE ACKNOWLEDGING THAT AND
OF THE LINE AT THE SAME TIME
THE SHAPE THE UNUSUAL SHAPE
BEING ABLE TO MAKE PRODUCTIVE
OF THE LINE AT THE SAME TIME
USE OUT OF THAT STRUCTURE.
BEING ABLE TO MAKE PRODUCTIVE
ADDITIONALLY ALLOWING THE
USE OUT OF THAT STRUCTURE.
VARIANCE I BELIEVE WILL RESULT
ADDITIONALLY ALLOWING THE
IN THE JETS JUSTICE BEING DONE
VARIANCE I BELIEVE WILL RESULT
CONSIDERING THE PUBLIC DENHA
IN THE JETS JUSTICE BEING DONE
BENEFITS WITH ADDING ANY TO YOU
CONSIDERING THE PUBLIC DENHA
WITH MORE HOUSING AND
BENEFITS WITH ADDING ANY TO YOU
CONSIDERING THE SUPPORT FROM
WITH MORE HOUSING AND
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT PEOPLE
CONSIDERING THE SUPPORT FROM
AND THE NEIGHBORS WHO HAVE
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT PEOPLE
TESTIFIED IN SUPPORT.
AND THE NEIGHBORS WHO HAVE
I THINK THAT ALL SPEAKS TO
TESTIFIED IN SUPPORT.
ALLOWING THIS VARIANCE WILL
I THINK THAT ALL SPEAKS TO
RESULT IN A SUBSTANTIAL JUSTICE
ALLOWING THIS VARIANCE WILL
BEING DONE SO I FEEL THAT YOUR
RESULT IN A SUBSTANTIAL JUSTICE
VARIOUS REQUESTS DO MEET DO
BEING DONE SO I FEEL THAT YOUR
CHECKBOX FOR US SO IT'S
VARIOUS REQUESTS DO MEET DO
SOMETHING I CAN SUPPORT.
CHECKBOX FOR US SO IT'S
THE VARIANCE IS AS WELL AS
SOMETHING I CAN SUPPORT.
SUPPORTING THE ALTERATION TO A
THE VARIANCE IS AS WELL AS
NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE SO
SUPPORTING THE ALTERATION TO A
THERE'LL BE TWO MOTIONS MADE.
NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE SO
ONE FOR THE VARIANCE IS ONE FOR
THERE'LL BE TWO MOTIONS MADE.
THE ALTERATION.
ONE FOR THE VARIANCE IS ONE FOR
SHALL WE DO THE VARIANCE ONE
THE ALTERATION.
FIRST IS THERE OTHER CONSISTENT
SHALL WE DO THE VARIANCE ONE
WITH OTHER I JUST ONE QUICK
FIRST IS THERE OTHER CONSISTENT
COMMENT CHRIS.
WITH OTHER I JUST ONE QUICK
YOU KNOW GOSH I JUST WISH THAT
COMMENT CHRIS.
THERE ARE MAYBE MEMBERS OF THE
YOU KNOW GOSH I JUST WISH THAT
PLANNING COMMISSION OR CITY
THERE ARE MAYBE MEMBERS OF THE
COUNCIL HERE THERE IS AROUND
PLANNING COMMISSION OR CITY
HIGHTON THAT MIGHT BE ABLE TO
COUNCIL HERE THERE IS AROUND
HELP EASE THE RULES TO ALLOW IT
HIGHTON THAT MIGHT BE ABLE TO
TO USE OUR SECOND UNITS IN
HELP EASE THE RULES TO ALLOW IT
GENERAL JUST TO JUSTIFY NO.
TO USE OUR SECOND UNITS IN
WELL, ALVEAR, I WILL SPEAK TO
GENERAL JUST TO JUSTIFY NO.
THEM.
WELL, ALVEAR, I WILL SPEAK TO
THEY HAVE BEEN RELAXED.
THEM.
THEY HAVE BEEN MODIFIED.
THEY HAVE BEEN RELAXED.
THE REASON THAT THIS ONE IS
THEY HAVE BEEN MODIFIED.
BEFORE US IS BECAUSE OF THE
THE REASON THAT THIS ONE IS
VARIANCES IN ITS RELATIONSHIP
BEFORE US IS BECAUSE OF THE
WITH A LOT ONE AND ONLY BEING
VARIANCES IN ITS RELATIONSHIP
ONE INCH OFF.
WITH A LOT ONE AND ONLY BEING
THE LAST LINE IS THAT IT SO IT
ONE INCH OFF.
GIVES ANYBODY IN THE PROXIMITY
THE LAST LINE IS THAT IT SO IT
A PUBLIC FORUM WHETHER TO SPEAK
GIVES ANYBODY IN THE PROXIMITY
FOR OR AGAINST THAT IF THEY
A PUBLIC FORUM WHETHER TO SPEAK
WERE IN ADJOINING PROPERTY OR
FOR OR AGAINST THAT IF THEY
WHEN YOU CHANGE A STRUCTURE
WERE IN ADJOINING PROPERTY OR
THAT'S GOING TO BE ONE INCH OFF
WHEN YOU CHANGE A STRUCTURE
A LOT IT REALLY SHOULD GO
THAT'S GOING TO BE ONE INCH OFF
THROUGH THE CORRECT VARIANCE
A LOT IT REALLY SHOULD GO
PROCEDURE
REGARDLESS OF MAKING
IT EASIER FOR YOU TO USE.
BUT WE HAVE MADE IT
SIGNIFICANTLY A PATH OF LESS
RESISTANCE TO TO APPROVE EIGHTY
YEARS.
YEAH.
SO YOU'RE RIGHT THERE IS LESS
INPUT.
I DON'T KNOW I JUST JUST THE
THAT JUST BEFORE I MAKE THAT
MOTION I'LL SPEAK FROM THE FACT
THAT WE PUT THIS ON FOR THE
VARIANCE ENABLED RESIDENTS
NEIGHBORS IN THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO COMMENT IN FAVOR
OF IT SO OR FOR AND AGAINST IT
THEY COULD HAVE AGAINST IT BUT
IN SPEAKING IN FAVOR OF IT IT
CHECKS ONE OF OUR BOXES IN
TERMS OF JUSTICE BEING DONE
CONSIDERING THE PUBLIC BENEFITS
OF OUR ZONING ORDINANCE.
SO IT'S GONNA BRING IT TO US.
IT'S GONE THROUGH A PROCESS.
IT DOES HELP US CHECKBOXES.
YEP.
SO I JUST WOULD JUST TO BE
CLEAR WE'LL HAVE TO TWO MOTIONS
ONE FOR THE VARIANCES THEN
FOLLOWING UP WITH THE
NONCONFORMING IS CORRECT.
SO I'LL START WITH IF PEOPLE
ARE PREPARED IF THE CHAIR IS
PREPARED FOR MOTION YES I'M
READY.
IS EVERYBODY READY OF THE
MOTION.
THIS WILL BE A VARIANCE MOTION
ZIBA TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO
ZERO TWO SIX FIVE TWENTY SIX
DETROIT STREET IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE ESTABLISHED STANDARDS
FOR APPROVAL THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS A
VARIANCE OF TWO FEET ONE INCH
AND TWO FEET 11 INCHES FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT SIXTEEN
POINT SIX SUBSECTION TWO
SUBSECTION D ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES AND USES THE
VARIANCES ARE REQUIRED FOR THE
EAST AND SOUTH SIDE OF AN
EXISTING DETACHED GARAGE TO
ALLOW IT TO BE CONVERTED TO AN
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT.
THE PROPOSED ADDITION TO THE
MAIN STRUCTURE REQUIRES A ONE
FOOT EIGHT INCH VARIANCE FROM
TABLE FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN
POINT THREE MULTIPLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT
DIMENSIONS TO ENCROACH INTO THE
REQUIRED 30 FOOT REAR YARD
SETBACK.
ALL NEW CONSTRUCTION IS TO BE
BUILT PER THE SUBMITTED PLANS
FORWARD.
OKAY, GOOD.
THANK YOU CHRIS.
ALL RIGHT DERMO.
YES, SIDEROV YES.
DAVE GIVATI.
YES.
I ALSO VOTE YES CHRIS YES IN
GRACE YES.
SO THIS PASSES SIX TO ZERO AND
NOW ON TO THE NONCONFORMING USE
ZEBA A TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO
ZERO TWO SIX FIVE TWENTY SIX
DETROIT STREET ALTERATION TO A
NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
POINT TO ALTERATION TO A
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE TO
ALLOW CONSTRUCTION OF AN
ADDITION TO THE REAR OF THE
HOME.
THERE WILL BE THREE POINT
EIGHTY TWO FEET FROM THE SIDE
LINE.
THE ADDITIONS WILL NOT ENCROACH
FURTHER INTO THE SIDE SET THAN
THE EXISTING HOME ALL
CONSTRUCTION IS TO COMPLY WITH
THE SUBMITTED PLANS SUPPORT
SUPPORT FOR GOING DOWN THE LIST
AGAIN DERMO YES SIDEROV YES
DAVE DAVE ALREADY YES.
I ALSO VOTE YES CHRIS YES IN
GREECE YES.
ALL RIGHT.
THAT ALSO WAS APPROVED.
ALL RIGHT SO IT FINISHES THE
GOODNESS ITEMS.
THE NEXT THING ON THE AGENDA ON
THE SCHEDULE TODAY UNFINISHED
BUSINESS.
IS THERE ANY UNFINISHED
BUSINESS?
I DORSAMI NEW BUSINESS
COMMUNICATIONS.
I DON'T THINK WE RECEIVED ANY
OTHER THAN THE ONES THAT WERE
ACKNOWLEDGED BEFORE AND THERE
IS NO PUBLIC COMMENT.
AZUR ASSERTED YOU WISH TO SAY
SOMETHING TO THE BOARD, SAY YOU
CAN GO HAVE DINNER NOW.
ALL RIGHT.
MOTION TO ADJOURN MAY SECOND.
YES.
EVERYBODY IN FAVOR I OF ANYBODY
AGAINST DON'T HEAR ANY GUESTS.
WE'RE ADJOURNED.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR COMING BY.
YEAH